Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands. So nice, thank you very much. That's really nice. Thank you. It's great to be at Trump Tower. It's great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it's an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody's expectations. There's been no crowd like this. And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn't know the air conditioner didn't work. They sweated like dogs. They didn't know the room was too big, because they didn't have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don't think it's gonna happen. Our country is in serious trouble. We don't have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we don't have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let's say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time. When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn't exist, folks. They beat us all the time. When do we beat Mexico at the border? They're laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they're killing us economically. The US has become a dumping ground for everybody else's problems. Thank you. It's true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're not sending you. They're not sending you. They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people. But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we're getting. And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They're sending us not the right people. It's coming from more than Mexico. It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably, probably, from the Middle East. But we don't know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don't know what's happening. And it's got to stop and it's got to stop fast. Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They've become rich. I'm in competition with them. They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don't have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should've taken. So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don't have, Iran has. And in 19, and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said, and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we've ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, Don't hit Iraq, because you're going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they're taking it over big league. We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love, they're great, all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers. And we have nothing. We can't even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it. Last week, I read 2300 Humvees, these are big vehicles, were left behind for the enemy. 2000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them. Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product, a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It's never below zero. Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate. And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don't believe the 5. Don't believe it. That's right. A lot of people up there can't get jobs. They can't get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs. But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it's a statistic that's full of nonsense. Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn't work. It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don't know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing. We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare. Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it's virtually useless. It's virtually useless. It is a disaster. And remember the $5 billion website? $5 billion we spent on a website, and to this day it doesn't work. A $5 billion website. I have so many websites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a website. It costs me $3. $5 billion website. Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing's gonna get done. They will not bring us, believe me, to the promised land. They will not. As an example, I've been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And they're wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They don't know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. I'm meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don't know, Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it? I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don't talk jobs and they don't talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They're devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn't believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They're killing us. But you don't hear that from anybody else. You don't hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches. I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, What's going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don't need the rhetoric. I want a job. And that's what's happening. And it's going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in 2016, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so I'd say, you what, if he wants to, I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he'd like to play, that's fine. In fact, I'd love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing. But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who's a doctor, and he said to me the other day, Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It's a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now. We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be, and, and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it. So I've watched the politicians. I've dealt with them all my life. If you can't make a good deal with a politician, then there's something wrong with you. You're certainly not very good. And that's what we have representing us. They will never make America great again. They don't even have a chance. They're controlled fully, they're controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully. Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They're great. But you know what? it won't happen. It won't happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it's destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now. Now, our country needs, our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now. We need a leader that wrote The Art of the Deal. We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned. And we also need a cheerleader. You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, Well, the one thing, I think he'll do well. I think he'll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he'd be a great spirit. He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader. He's not a leader. That's true. You're right about that. But he wasn't a cheerleader. He's actually a negative force. He's been a negative force. He wasn't a cheerleader; he was the opposite. We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It's not great again. We need, we need somebody, we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that. And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They're saying, Dad, you're going to do something that's going to be so tough. You know, all of my life, I've heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can't happen. And yet that's the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again. So ladies and gentlemen. I am officially running. for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again. It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people. We have people that aren't working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they're going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And they'll be proud, and they'll love it, and they'll make much more than they would've ever made, and they'll be, they'll be doing so well, and we're going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that. I'll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I'll bring back our jobs, and I'll bring back our money. Right now, think of this: We owe China $1 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal's even better. How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they? I'm going to tell you, thank you. I'm going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I'm totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons. Number one, the people negotiating don't have a clue. Our president doesn't have a clue. He's a bad negotiator. He's the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there. We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That's the negotiator we have. Take a look at the deal he's making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won't exist very long. It's a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But. So we need people, I'm a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don't have talented people, if you don't have great leadership, if you don't have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible. Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren't smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And it's just not going to work. So, here's a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again. But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything, everything, they got away with it again. And it's impossible for our people here to compete. So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who's a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. He's very upset. I said, What's your problem? He said, You know, I make great product. And I said, I know. I know that because I buy the product. He said, I can't get it into China. They won't accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it. I said, Oh, wait a minute, that's terrible. Does anyone know this? He said, Yeah, they do it all the time with other people. I said, They send it back? Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. They're not supposed to be doing that. I told them. Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there. Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeing's secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing. Hey, I'm not saying they're stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for, I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable. I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China. People say, Oh, you don't like China? No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we can't sustain ourself with that. There's too much, it's like, it's like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. That's the difference between China's leaders and our leaders. They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. We're rebuilding many countries. China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes. And they're all over the place. We have all the cards, but we don't know how to use them. We don't even know that we have the cards, because our leaders don't understand the game. We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly. Now they're going militarily. They're building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do that because we'd have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldn't let our country, we would never build in an ocean. They built it in about one year, this massive military port. They're building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a problem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China. And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico. So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, That's a terrible story. I hate to hear it. But I have another one, Ford. So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. It's going in and that's going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people. All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces they're not going to Tennessee. They're gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead. Not good. Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2 billion, it's going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company. So I announced that I'm running for president. I would.. one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in, and I wouldn't even use, you know, I have, I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones. You get a lot of them that are overrated. They're not good. They think they are. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed. But they're not good. But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Believe me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well. But I wouldn't even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was president, I'd say, Congratulations. I understand that you're building a nice $2 billion car factory in Mexico and that you're going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border. And you say to yourself, How does that help us, right? How does that help us? Where is that good? It's not. So I would say, Congratulations. That's the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, we're going to charge you a 35 percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and that's it. Now, here's what is going to happen. If it's not me in the position, it's one of these politicians that we're running against, you know, the 400 people that we're. And here's what's going to happen. They're not so stupid. They know it's not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. But then they're going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, You can't do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you can't do that to Ford. And guess what? No problem. They're going to build in Mexico. They're going to take away thousands of jobs. It's very bad for us. So under President Trump, here's what would happen: The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be he'd want to be cool, and he'll wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool. And he'll say, Please, please, please. He'll beg for a little while, and I'll say, No interest. Then he'll call all sorts of political people, and I'll say, Sorry, fellas. No interest, because I don't need anybody's money. It's nice. I don't need anybody's money. I'm using my own money. I'm not using the lobbyists. I'm not using donors. I don't care. I'm really rich. I. And by the way, I'm not even saying that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of thinking you need for this country. So, because we got to make the country rich. It sounds crass. Somebody said, Oh, that's crass. It's not crass. We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems. We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete. We've got nothing. We've got Social Security that's going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesn't bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. I'm not going to cut it at all; I'm going to bring money in, and we're going to save it. But here's what's going to happen: After I'm called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after I'm called by all of the special interests and by the, the donors and by the lobbyists, and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero, I'll get a call the next day from the head of Ford. He'll say. Please reconsider, I'll say no. He'll say, Mr. President, we've decided to move the plant back to the United States, and we're not going to build it in Mexico. That's it. They have no choice. They have no choice. There are hundreds of things like that. I'll give you another example. Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We say we're gonna protect. What are we doing? They've got nothing but money. If the right person asked them, they'd pay a fortune. They wouldn't be there except for us. And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody got out, and they kept our equipment. They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be, we ought to send our surplus. We're always losing this gorgeous brand new stuff. But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They're gone. And I'm the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that I'm running against now, it's so nice to say I'm running as opposed to if I run, if I run. I'm running. But all of these politicians that I'm running against now, they're trying to disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldn't answer the question. He didn't know. I said, Is he intelligent? Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing? He didn't know. He couldn't answer the question. How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna, how are we gonna go back and make it great again? We can't. They don't have a clue. They can't lead us. They can't. They can't even answer simple questions. It was terrible. But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders. There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. Because we need money. We're dying. We're dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people. So Ford will come back. They'll all come back. And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, that's based on competence. Somebody said, thank you, darlin'. Somebody said to me the other day, a reporter, a very nice reporter, But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person. That's true. But actually I am. I think I am a nice person. People that know me, like me. Does my family like me? I think so, right. Look at my family. I'm proud of my family. By the way, speaking of my family, Melania, Barron, Kai, Donnie, Don, Vanessa, Tiffany, Evanka did a great job. Did she do a great job? Great. Jared, Laura and Eric, I'm very proud of my family. They're a great family. So the reporter said to me the other day, But, Mr. Trump, you're not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you? I said, I don't know. I said, I think that number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think I'm actually a very nice person. But, I said, This is going to be an election that's based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. And they're tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world. And they're tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And some of them are like third world countries. But we're becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what I'll do. I'll do it. Because a lot of people said, He'll never run. Number one, he won't want to give up his lifestyle. They're right about that, but I'm doing it. Number two, I'm a private company, so nobody knows what I'm worth. And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth. So I said, That's OK. I'm proud of my net worth. I've done an amazing job. I started off, thank you, I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said, and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot. But he used to say, Donald, don't go into Manhattan. That's the big leagues. We don't know anything about that. Don't do it. I said, I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta do it, Dad. I've gotta do it. And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals, the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young. And now I'm building all over the world, and I love what I'm doing. But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is he's private and he's probably not as successful as everybody thinks. So I said to myself, you know, nobody's ever going to know unless I run, because I'm really proud of my success. I really am. I've employed, I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical. That means education. That means everything. So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because it's big and complex, and they've put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we don't use extensions or anything. We'll be filing it right on time. We don't need anything. And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, He had assets of $9 billion. So I said, No, that's the wrong number. That's the wrong number. Not assets. So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it the old fashioned way. It's real estate. You know, it's real estate. It's labor, and it's unions good and some bad and lots of people that aren't in unions, and it's all over the place and building all over the world. And I have assets, big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected, 9 billion 240 million dollars. And I have liabilities of about $500 million. That's long term debt, very low interest rates. In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, Donald, you don't have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion? I said, I don't need it. I don't want it. And I've been there. I don't want it. But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, it'll be well over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of net worth, not assets, not, a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets, Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York, many other places all over the world. So the total is $873754000. Now I'm not doing that. I'm not doing that to brag, because you know what? I don't have to brag. I don't have to, believe it or not. I'm doing that to say that that's the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking. We have losers. We have losers. We have people that don't have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain. So I put together this statement, and the only reason I'm telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years, you know, we're at $8 trillion now. We're soon going to be at $20 trillion. According to the economists, who I'm not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what they're saying, that $24 trillion, we're very close, that's the point of no return. $24 trillion. We will be there soon. That's when we become Greece. That's when we become a country that's unsalvageable. And we're gonna be there very soon. We're gonna be there very soon. So, just to sum up, I would do various things very quickly. I would repeal and replace the big lie, Obamacare. I would build a great wall, and nobody builds walls better than me, believe me, and I'll build them very inexpensively, I will build a great, great wall on our southern border. And I will have Mexico pay for that wall. Mark my words. Nobody would be tougher on ISIS than Donald Trump. Nobody. I will find, within our military, I will find the General Patton or I will find General MacArthur, I will find the right guy. I will find the guy that's going to take that military and make it really work. Nobody, nobody will be pushing us around. I will stop Iran from getting nuclear weapons. And we won't be using a man like Secretary Kerry that has absolutely no concept of negotiation, who's making a horrible and laughable deal, who's just being tapped along as they make weapons right now, and then goes into a bicycle race at 72 years old, and falls and breaks his leg. I won't be doing that. And I promise I will never be in a bicycle race. That I can tell you. I will immediately terminate President Obama's illegal executive order on immigration, immediately. Fully support and back up the Second Amendment. Now, it's very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, You know, Mr. Trump, and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didn't want guns. And now since this happened, it's up in the prison area, my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. We're ready to start shooting. I said, Very interesting. So protect the Second Amendment. End, end Common Core. Common Core should, it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I don't see how he can possibly get the nomination. He's weak on immigration. He's in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just can't do it. We have to end education has to be local. Rebuild the country's infrastructure. Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought. I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad. You know, we're building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, we're converting it into one of the world's great hotels. It's gonna be the best hotel in Washington, DC We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after, or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it. Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, we're really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And I'll add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built. So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, it's like we're in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40 year old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw. You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it. Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money that's being lost. Renegotiate our foreign trade deals. Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, we're in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see what's happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated. Be careful of a bubble because what you've seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful. And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important. Sadly, the American dream is dead. But if I get elected president I will bring it back bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and we will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. That's so nice. Isn't he a great guy. He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it. It's just not fair. And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party. Also, also the people of Iowa. They have something in common. Hard working people. They want to work, they want to make the country great. I love the people of Iowa. So that's the way it is. Very simple. With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job. The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused. Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible. In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray. Very simple. Politicians are all talk, no action. They are all talk and no action. And it's constant; it never ends. And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican. And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians. Because they let the president get away with absolute murder. You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to,. Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens. You look at Obamacare. A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in 2016 and it is going to be a disaster. People are closing up shops. Doctors are quitting the business. I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy. He said, I have more accountants than I have patients. And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business. And he was very successful guy. But it's happening more and more. Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website. I have many websites, many, many websites. They're all over the place. But for $10, okay? Now everything about Obamacare was a lie. It was a filthy lie. And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted? Does anyone do anything? And what are the Republican politicians doing about it? He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect. You can keep your plan. And you've all heard that hundreds of times. That's like the real estate location, location. I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location. But you have heard this about Obamacare. And it's disgraceful. It's a big, fat, horrible lie. Your deductibles are going through the roof. You're not going to get, unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage. And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore. So it's a real, real disaster. And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare. And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it. Now, we have to build a fence. And it's got to be a beauty. Who can build better than Trump? I build; it's what I do. I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings. Fences are easy, believe me. I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border. They're walking. The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country. It is so terrible. It is so unfair. It is so incompetent. And we don't have the best coming in. We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks. You can certainly have terrorists. You can certainly have Islamic terrorists. You can have anything coming across the border. We don't do anything about it. So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border. Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it. Benghazi. Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi. Everything is Benghazi. What happens? Nothing. IRS, e mails. I get sued all the time, okay. I run a big business. You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful. I have done so many deals. Almost all of them have been tremendously successful. You'll see that when I file my statements. I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay. But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president. Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many, Look, Obama, what did he do? No deal. He never did a deal. He did one deal. A house. And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay. He got away with murder. But I can tell you, e mails. IRS, the e mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost. If you were in my world you would know that e mails can't be lost; they can't be lost. So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e mails are? They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it. Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great. But they talk about it. And then you have a president that does an executive order. Nobody even heard of an executive order. He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders. Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment, which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that, why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier. Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it. We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed. So we have to do something. Jobs. China. I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese. One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it. And I know them. And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with. We can't believe how stupid your leaders are. They tell me that. Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not. But they tell me that. And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much, goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries. The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation. I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing. They are devaluing down to nothing. And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete. And they're getting away with it. And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it. But you watch this devaluation of all of it. I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing. And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good. You know it's one of those things, sounds good. Be very careful. Be very careful. Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing. They have it set. Don't forget another thing. China became the number one economic power a year ago. That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen. It was absolutely unthinkable. So it happened and it's very, very sad. Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq. We got nothing. They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us. Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us. We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS. By the way, you know how they formed. They took the oil. And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump, there are some of you, have I been saying for four years, keep the oil. So now ISIS has the oil. And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take. So we get nothing. We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have. I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people. And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military. But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast. We have incompetent people. They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing. It needs money. We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security. because I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security. I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid. Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security. And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue. It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things. Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons. We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast. We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon. We can't do it. Can't do it. We cannot let that happen. You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other. Here we are in Syria. We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria. Think of this. We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government. Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay. But think of it; think of it. ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall. There are so many things; there are so many things. But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear. Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles. You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable. The power. And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens. We've never had this before. We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there. We're trying to do the right thing. We have leadership, again, no leadership respects us. You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find. The same thing is happening there. And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals. And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals. They're taking it out. Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals. So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker. It's really, really crazy. So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country. If we don't, The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed. Bridges are collapsing all over the country. The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure. I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai. I go to various different places. I go to China. They are building a bridge on every corner. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff. They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen. They are building airports in Qatar, which they like to say cutter but I've always said Qatar so I'll keep it Qatar what the hell. But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen. And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes. The place is falling apart. You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart. And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt. So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place. This is inside, not outside. And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen. In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor. I said it's not an honor; they're just smart. But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling. You look at all of the things that are bad, I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails. You know the guard rails. The ones that sort of go like this that are always bent, rusted and horrible. Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes. Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years. Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works. Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening. Somebody made a lot of money on that. They don't know what is happening. So we have to make our country great again. We have to rebuild our country. And we have a long way to go. We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money. Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it. We owe it to other countries. They're the ones that hold the debt. And then we give them money. We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies. I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know, No American company comes to see and comes to bid. It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them. What are we doing; why aren't they paying us? Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing? I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea. You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea. Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on? Now, we have a very important election coming up. We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people. Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details. We have some good people. It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed. He failed. I mean I liked him. Look, like him, dislike him, the 47 percent statement that he made, that's not going away. The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away. What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time. It's not fair because it was a long t, That doesn't work. But more importantly, he choked. Something happened to him in the last month. He had that election won. And let me tell you something. That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal. I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it. Or a golfer that can't sink the three footer to win the tournament. And there are many of them. Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that. You can't give somebody another chance, because actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president. I really do. I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true. So you can't have Romney. He choked. You can't have Bush. The last thing we need is another Bush. Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing, You know they copied it. I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing. But I said it. I was the one that said it first, and I mean it. The last thing we need is another Bush. Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that. But he's totally in favor of Common Core. He's very, very weak on immigration. Don't forget, remember his statement, they come for love. I say, what? Come for love? You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals. They're coming for love? They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love. And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama. I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama. because Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months. And then he appointed Justice Roberts. And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts. And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes. So you can't have Jeb Bush. And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win. So Mitt and, you just can't have those two. That's it. That's it. It's so simple. So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important. And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters. And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet. He is reading it. I mean give me a break. Everything is read. You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk. And that's what we ended up getting, the king of teleprompters. But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing. No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that. But we have to do something about these teleprompters. But in looking at these situations, I built an incredible company. And you'll see that. An incredible company; a wonderful company. I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing. And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix. We have such great potential. So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in: creating jobs; defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists, and you have to do that; reducing the budget deficit, so important, have to do it; securing our Southern border, and I mean seriously securing it; stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere; saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it; repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country. And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody. And everybody can be covered. I'm not saying leave 50 percent of the people out. Everybody can be c, This plan is just a basic disaster. Nobody knows. As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is; fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports. And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump. I just got the best hotel in North America. I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one. I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress. Right on Penn., The Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama. Do you believe that? And everybody wanted it. So, I can't believe it myself. But it's going to be fantastic; and so many other things. I know what needs to be done to make America great again. We can make this country great again. The potential is enormous. And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you. We have so many problems in this country. We'll talk about a few of them. And we'll celebrate because ultimately, we're going to have victory. We're going to have victory. This is a movement that's happening. I had a lawyer come up to see me a little while ago that said Mr. Trump, I've been doing this for 35 years and never seen what happened here. I got a call from a writer from The New York Times. I have great respect for The New York Times. And called up, I know. I hear that. OK. It's a good story, not a bad story. And he said could I ask you a question? I said what? Very powerful writer, actually. He said how does it feel? How does what feel? He said what you've done has never ever been done before. You've dominated. You have taken over the polls. You know, on television, on FOX and CNN, they call it all Trump all the time. Can you believe it? All trump all the time. And by the way, their ratings are through the roof. If they weren't, they wouldn't put me on. I'll be honest. It's a simple formula in entertainment and television. If you get good ratings, if you get good ratings and these aren't good, these are monster, then you're going to be in all the time even if you have nothing to say. If you come up with a cure for a major, major, horrendous disease and if you don't get ratings, they don't bother even reporting it. It's very simple business. It's very simple. So we've gone on, we've had a lot of fun and now it's time to really start because this is going to happen, I'm telling you, I'm not going anymore. Somebody said today. We're not going anywhere. We are not going anywhere. Somebody said today you've done so well, you don't have to go any further. I said are you crazy? You know what? The writer the Times told me, he said it's been amazing what you've done. I said but I haven't won. We haven't won anything. What if I won? I'm having fun and all, but I haven't won. There's been no victory. He said it doesn't matter. What you've done is incredible. You have won. I said you're wrong, unless I win it's been a waste of time for me, I'll be honest. A total waste of time. I really mean that, too. We should have won, thank you, he said you will win. We should have won last time. Mitt Romney let us down. I mean, he let us down. He let us down. You know, one of the things that I'm really happy about, I'm surging, they said. Can you believe this one? I'm surging with women. Can you believe it? I have such respect for women. I cherish women. I'm going to take such good care of women's health care issues, you won't even believe it, but I'm surging with women. One of the things coming out, I'm watching television and they said Trump is surging with women. I said really? That's amazing. You know, it's incredible. I'll make like statements because, you know, Carly is giving me a little bit of a hard time even though her poll numbers are horrible. She's the one. She was another one. She is surging. Ben is, everybody is surging but me. Hilary is not surging, I tell you that. They are not saying, thank you. Hilary is not surging. Look, I like Carly and I like Ben and I like many of the people that I'm running against. I mean, many of these people are terrific people, but nobody is going to be able to do the job that I'm going to do. Nobody. They won't. They won't. Don't forget, I love these people in back of me. But they won't. I mean, what I do is I do deals. I deal. I have tremendous energy, tremendous to a point where it's almost ridiculous when you think about it. But we need somebody with great energy, with great passion, with great deal making skills. And we need a closer. We need closers. We don't have closers. We just don't have closers. And honestly, they are not deal people. I'll tell you they are good at raising money for their packs or whatever they holding. Probably, they are not supposed to do that but most of them are doing anyway. It's illegal as hell, but I think they are doing it anyway. You notice they have money in the pack but they don't have hard money, but the pack has given them, I say what is going on over here? How come I can't talk to anybody? And again, I have to tell you this, and I want to have your opinion. So I'm self funding I told you. But if I took hundreds of millions, I tell you what, I could have $200 million so fast. If I took that, would you people object if I promise not to do anything from the people I took it from? No? I had a group in Iowa, actually, they were much more vocal about this one issue. And they stood up, no, no, the place, I mean, I realize how important it is, putting your own money in because I'm telling people that Jeb, nice guy, really a nice guy. Jeb is more popular than one person I know. But all of them. I don't want to go through the names. They have money put up in packs or hard money, wherever the money is, believe me, I was the king. I was the king. You know, I was the white haired, no, blonde haired, let's say blonde. But, I was the blonde head. I was perfect. I was the ultimate. I was the ultimate sort of insider. I put up money. They loved me. But then when I said I'm running, they all looked at me like the RNC, Reince is a great guy but it took him a little while because they looked at me like you're not supposed to be doing that. You're supposed to be putting up money. And if you need something in two years, three years, five years, they will do whatever you want. And what happened is I know the system I think better than anybody. I know the tax system. Look, taxes. Who knows better than me? We're going to reduce taxes. We're going to make the hedge fund, any hedge fund guys it would be mostly, you got good seats. Are there any hedge fund guys in this room? If there are, you should probably leave right now. But I have a friend in the hedge fund business, not really a friend. Not actually a nice guy, but it be goof representing us, I will tell you. Because by the time I finish he might not have much of a hedge fund. But I said what did you make last year? He said about $250 million. This is serious. I said, oh, that's a lot of money. What did you pay in taxes? He goes, Don, practically nothing. That was a couple years ago. I never forgot it. The other day he calls me up because he heard me talk about hedge fund guys are going to pay up. And he call up the other day. I was only kidding, you know, when I said that or sort of it. He doesn't know what to do. The truth is they will do just fine. They will do just fine because we'll make the country so successful, they will end up doing better. They will end up doing better. They will end up doing better. But we got to lower taxes for a lot of people. Corporations paying far too much, far too much, middle income people are being decimated, they are being decimated. I mean, we have a group of 200 guys but the middle income in this country is being decimated and we're going to change it. We're going to change it. So I'll be announcing over the next three or so weeks, I'll be announcing, I think a great tax plan. I know the tax code. I know everything about it, probably as well as anybody, there is, right? And we are going to be doing something that's going to be really pro, growth, really reduction in taxes. We're going to get the $2 trillion that's in other countries, we're going to get it back. No, we're going to get it back. And you know, you have corporate inversion. Does anybody know what that means? You know, in the old days people might leave New York for Texas or they may go from New Jersey to Florida or whatever. It's not that way anymore. Now they go from this country to other countries, and they go for two reasons, lower taxes, lower labor, but lower taxes. You have countries that want to charge them nothing. So they take these companies and these guys, they make a fortune, they have no real loyalty in many cases. They have no real loyalty to the United States. They want to show good profit and loss. So they take and go to another country. And all of a sudden their numbers look good. And they can't bring their money back in. And by the way for two and a half, three years, I have seen every politician agrees we should lower the tax on bringing money because it's so onerous that nobody in this room would bring that money back. Everybody says it for two and a half years, Democrats, Republicans, liberals, conservatives, everybody, they can't make a deal. They can't make a deal. We have a government that's really messed up because we don't have a leader at the top. A right leader could get it done. The right leader will get it done and you will see numbers like you've never seen before. I actually believe that and we're in trouble. You know, I've made the statement and I've said this before, the American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. I made that statement. And I'll tell you what happens and it happens a lot. The other day I went home and I said to my wife, what's wrong? Oh, darling, you were very tough. What? What did I do? Of course, it's live television. She said you said the American dream is dead. I said no, I said the American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. She said no, you didn't. You just said it's dead. So I turn on television, it's wonderful to record this and see it ten hours later. I turn on television and me standing in this big crowd, the American dream is dead. I said, oh. Again, the dishonest media. I went ballistic. I was so angry. But the American dream is going to be better. I tell you what? We can make it better than ever before. We can do, I mean, we're in Texas. We can do things with oil and gas that will be unbelievable. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Try sending your oil outside of the boundaries of the United States. How ridiculous. And we're sitting on top because of technology, we can be the number one energy producer in the world right here in the United States. But we have our laws, we have everything is wrong. And I have so many friends in the energy business, they are great people, they are working, they are not as rich as they were about two months ago, but these are minor details. They will be fine. But we can do things with energy that will be so, so incredible, which is great for Texas but great for the country. It's great for the country. Now, China, Japan, true, you can't be upset with China or Japan or Mexico. Can't be upset with anyone. You know, when I announced for the presidency, it was very interesting what happened. I made a beautiful speech. I thought it was wonderful. Everything was fine. A week and a half later, they attacked me. In other words they went to. And then they lied. They made it up. I'm talking about illegal immigration. And I brought up a subject called illegal immigration. And I just saw back stage some of the families who were decimated. Their families were decimated, their sons, their daughters killed by illegal immigrants and it's a massive problem. We have to stop illegal immigration. We have to do it. We have to do it. Have to do it. And when I hear some of the people that I'm running against, including the Democrats, we have to build a wall, folks. We have to build a wall. And a wall works. All you have to do is go to Israel and say how is your wall working? Walls work. And I want people to come into the country but I want them to be legal and go through the process. I want them to come in. I want to have a big beautiful door but they have to be legal. They have to be. And if they are not going to be, they can't come in. And I'll tell you what, the first thing we do, you know, people realize, you look at crime in Chicago, you look at crime in so many different places and you see gangs. Many of these gang members are illegal immigrants. They are rough dudes. They will be out of here so freaking fast, And I think a lot of these countries send them in here because they don't want them. What do they want them in prison for 40 years? Look, look, whether it's any country, their leaders are smarter than our leaders. They are more cunning. They are tougher. They are better. And we take them, Kate in San Francisco, this magnificent young woman shot in the back by a guy sent over here probably pushed over, who knows, but he was an illegal immigrant came over, went to San Francisco. We have to end this sanction wary cities crap fast, fast. So he admits he's guilty. Now he's got a lawyer. Oh, he didn't really know. He wasn't aiming there. It was a ricochet, blah, blah, blah. It's disgusting what's happening to our country. We are a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are a dumping ground. And let me tell you something, the whole subject of anchor babies, did you hear that character from one of the networks? Anchor babies, just really not a nice term. I said what would you do, what would you say? And it gives me like a 12 word definition. I said no, we'll have to use anchor baby. But I don't mean to be disrespectful, but when a man has a problem and he's got his wife or his girlfriend and they move her over to the border for one day, has the baby on the other side of the border, our side, now that baby is a citizen of our country for however long the baby lives, hopefully a long, it's wrong. It's wrong. And by the way, by the way, the law doesn't call that. That's not what the law says and people are finding out now that I'm right. We didn't say that somebody can be pregnant for nine months, come across the border, have a baby and now it's ours and we have to take care of the baby forever. It doesn't say that. It does not say it. So we have to straighten out, we have to straighten out our act. We're going to have a great country. We're going to have a great border. We're going to have a border that's a real border. You people are suffering. I'm in New York but from New York, too. They are all over the place. We want people to be in our country legally. Legally. And we want great people, too. We want people of achievement. If you go to Harvard or Stanford or the Wharton school of finance or any of these schools or Yale and you're the top in your close, you graduate and want to stay in the United States and have your career here, you can't. They throw you out. They put you back in China, they send you back to Mexico. They said those are the people, we need those people. We need them in Silicon Valley. We need in Manhattan. We need them in Dallas. We need them. Why are we throwing them out? They want to be in this country and we throw them out. So we have so many things we can do. So many things we can do. Now I'll give you the little thing that happened the other day. Made a speech on behalf of the tea party. And by the way, the tea party people are fantastic people. They are fantastic people. They love the country so much and you talk about people that get decimated, they just get decimated by the media. These are fantastic people. They love this country. These are the people that we want. But I look at what's going on and I look at what's happening and I made a speech in Washington the other day for the tea party and your senator, too, Senator Cruz who happens to be a good guy. Good guy. Now if he comes out and attacks me on Wednesday night, I will take it back immediately. OK? But he is a good guy. So I'm standing there and the capital building has a massive scaffolding around it, right? Have you seen it? Massive. I said man that's a big deal. As a real estate guy, the thing I do best is build. Hey, wouldn't it be good to have the president that knows how to build? Like I'm so good at it. Infrastructures, roads, airports, highways, I could do it for a fraction. You know, I'm building the old post office on Pennsylvania Avenue under budget ahead schedule, can you believe that? And I got it from the Obama administration and everyone else wanted it, which I still haven't figured out but it's going to be a great hotel. But they are doing the capital building and it has got massive, massive scaffolding. And we are having in 2016, you know, we're going to have a thing called like an election and they say that this massive scaffolding. I heard this the other day from a construction firm that this massive scaffolding, they want to have it for the inauguration, wouldn't that be nice for me? But they want to have all the scaffolding down but they can't do the work because they don't have enough time. They have so much time. What are they doing, caulking, pointing, fixing, structure, what the hell are they doing? It is not a big deal. So they are going to take all of the scaffolding down, paying millions to do that, millions and then after the inauguration, they are going to put it back up again and pay millions of dollars. Do you believe that? Right? Now I say do it simpler, get them to work faster. Do you agree? I like the idea. No, no. I like the idea of the scaffolding being down when they are swearing me in, I do. I don't want to see all the scaffolding all over the place. I want to see that beautiful, I want to see it. I love it. Such a beautiful building. But you know what? I told them, I said why don't you just move faster? Work faster. Get it done. So you take it down and you don't have to put it up. They said we never thought of that. Believe it? But they are going to take it down. They are going to take it down. So they are going to take it down and put it back up. Can you believe this? So let me tell you. I'm going to save my first money for the United States. If I win, I will let the scaffolding stay up, OK? All right? I'll let it stay up. We'll save millions of dollars. So in the pictures, they will have some scaffolding. They can probably no a days do something with that. So in the pictures we'll have scaffolding. So not if I win, stand up, what did you say? Not if you win, when you win. So a story I tell is a friend of mine who is a big manufacturer, great guy. Can't do business with China. Can't get his stuff in there. He calls me, he's depressed. He says to me, Donald, I can't deal with China and he's a good guy, does great stuff, better than they do. I can't sell it. They don't take it. Finally take it and charge a massive tax. A massive tax. Another friend of mine recently, he bought an airplane, a rich guy. Bought like for these people here. They probably all have, but a really good plane. Our country is being drained. Our jobs are being stolen by all these countries, not just them all of them. What would president Trump do? President trump? Trump, trump, trump. What would president Trump do? So I'd call the head of Ford or whatever company. But I'd call the head of Ford. I'd say congratulations. I understand you're building a massive plant in Mexico and you're taking a lot of jobs away from us in Michigan and other places. I don't like that. I don't like it. I just don't like it. And he will say, well, Mr. President, it's wonderful, wonderful for the economy. It's great. It's wonderful. Whose economy? Not for our economy. We lose on everything. We lose on jobs. We lose on money. We lose on everything. So what I'd say is the following, I don't want you to do that. And if you do it, you're not going to have any cars coming across the border unless you pay 35 percent tax. That's it. No, that's it. And they are going to say, they are going to say to me, Mr. President, please, please, please. Now, I guarantee you, let's say I make this call at 9:00 in the morning. By 5:00 in the afternoon I think the deal is done, they move back to the United States. It may take a half a day longer. May be 12:00 the following day, but I guarantee you, so they will, what will happen is I'll be called by lobbyists but not giving me money. I won't take it. So I turned down $5 million last week, $5 million. So I said I can't take it. You know, I go like this. I just close my eyes. You know, it's really sort of not natural to me to turn down money. Does that make, but I turn it down because once I know the game. Once they give you, you sort of owe them, right? You know. How can you tell a guy, you know, you gave me $5 million and helped me get elected and I'm going to hurt you with client. So, what happens, I would say, is that I will get a call from the head of Ford, and he'll say Mr. Trump, you're doing the wrong thing. I'd say, no, no, that's fine. Just do it. Just do what I say. Do what I say. And I guarantee you after I tell all the lobbyists, special interest and people that donate to everybody else but me because I won't take their money, after I tell them all no within a short period of time they will call up and they'll say, Mr. President we decided to move our plant back to the United States, sir. This is going to happen. That's what is going to happen. So, just a couple of more points and you know, it's depressing, isn't it depressing? You know, we're together, we love each other, but it's like depressing if you think about it. Because it doesn't end. I could stand up here all night long, I could tell you stories, they are all depressing. But the good news is, they can all be remedied. Every one of them. They can be remedied. So, Iran deal, Iran deal. They did not read that great book, where is that book? The Art of the Deal. They did not read it. Secretary of State Kerry, he actually may go down as worst than , because he made this deal. He may be the worst. He may top her because this deal is the all time worst. We're giving them 1, think of this, we're actually giving them $150 billion. Now think of it. Think of it. We don't have the right to inspect. We have to wait 24 days but before the clock starts ticking, we have to go through this whole process. I mean they could build their nuclear whatever, distribute and then have plenty of time leftover to clean the place up. So, you have a 24 day period, not anytime, anywhere, which is what it should be. Think of another thing. They have one instance where in a very major area, they self inspect. Now, can you believe this? They do their own inspections. They do their own inspections. And another thing, look, having a good deal, we should have doubled the sanctions, let , wait for another month or two. They would have come and we would have a deal like you've ever seen. We have our chief negotiators, Secretary Kerry at 73 years old goes into a bicycle race. Think of it. He's wearing the whole gear of helmet, he's like , he thinks he's in a bicycle race. He's actually in a race. It wasn't just casual, I could understand that. This is a guy that's in a bicycle race. 73 years old, all the gear, falls, breaks his leg in the middle of our thing. Takes two weeks off, goes back with crutches. The people from Iran say, what a shmuck. Can you believe this? But this is who we negotiate with. Now, think of this, it's embarrassing. Isn't it like embarrassing? How do you , I swear to you if I'm elected as president, I will never go into a bicycle race, I swear. So, but you know, one of the things. But I know the toughest guys in the world. Toughest smartest , I know people that are great. I know people that are overrated, won't use them. I know people that you never heard of better than all of them. I know the toughest guys and the smartest guys in the world. Carl Icahn called me. Carl Icahn is a great guy, very successful. If I put Carl Icahn in charge of trade with China, believe me, believe me, we do great. And, you know, believe me, instead of the people that we have that are political hacks, you know who is negotiating for us? Political hacks, political hacks. I asked for some numbers today before I came here. I said what's the United States trade deficit with China, Japan, and Mexico? Now, listen to these numbers. With China last year, we had a trade deficit of $343 billion. $343 billion. That's gone on for many years. A business that's no good. What do you do, you close it up, you start all over? You forget it. $343 billion. With Japan we're doing much better. It's only $67 billion. I call it that we're losing. Okay? Trade deficit. $67 billion. They send us so much, we send them practically nothing. Now, here is the beauty, Mexico. So Mexico, again, I love the people of Mexico. I respect the leaders. But they are too sharp. They are too good. So everyone said they won't build a wall because I said I'm going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for it, right? Right? And all of these weak politicians, they are weak people. They are weak, weak people. They won't pay for it. I watch it on television. The idiots like Karl Rove. He said Mexico is going to pay for the wall. George Will, Mexico won't pay. Okay, think of this. First of all, there is going to be a wall. This isn't one of those deals where they jump over it, they go to Home Depot, buy a ladder, jump over the wall. This is a Trump wall. This is a Trump wall. This is a real wall. You know, you know, the Great Wall of China is 13000 miles. It was built 2000 years ago. It was actually built over a long period of time, but it started 2000 , it's a long time. So 13000 miles. What we're talking about is 2000 miles, but less, maybe 1000 because you'll have a lot of territory where you don't need it. You have natural barricades, you have some walls that were built that are OK. Although, I'd like to be nice in uniform. You know, if I ever put my name on it, I want a gorgeous wall. You know. The Trump wall, that would be a beautiful wall. That's why I have to make it beautiful because some day when I'm gone, they are going to name that wall after Trump, I think. But I listened to these guys, and they say, how stupid , I listened to them today. Some politicians said Trump will never be able to afford the wall. We can't afford it. It's too expensive. It's peanuts. It's peanuts. It's nothing. And Mexico is going to pay. Now, here is the Mexico number, right? Let's say the wall cost $4 billion. You know, they say $10 billion. That means $4 billion if you know what you're doing and the $4 billion will be much bigger, much better, much stronger than the $10 billion. Believe me. Oh, do I know how to build? Greatest. One of the greats. So, let's say it costs $4 or $5 billion. Our trade deficit with Mexico is $53 billion. So four or five billion is peanuts. It's peanuts. Mexico is going to pay and they will be happy. They will be happy. Now, look, if you have some dumb politician negotiating, I agree they won't pay, but when you have Trump negotiating for you on your behalf, they will pay. 100 percent. 100 percent. They're with him all the time, the people that did it. They never said, Hey, boss, uh, we're closing up the George Washington Bridge. No, they never said that, they're talking about the weather? Right? So he knew about it, he knew about it. Totally knew about it. He's got a very friendly group of people over there.. Look, it's called life, you gotta be smart in life. I would say there's less than 1 percent chance. It could be, but I doubt it. He knew about it. They mentioned it. They didn't mention at one of their meetings? I think they had breakfast like every day or every other day. They didn't say, 'Chris, tonight we're closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor of a certain area is against you' Oh, OK, they didn't mention it. Nobody believes it. No. 2: Nine downgrades of the state. Nine downgrades, it's a disaster, their property over there. The taxes are through, I'll use an expression: coming out of my ears, OK? Tremendous taxes over there. You had nine downgrades. You had Christie, you know, so friendly with President Obama during the flood. I actually called. I said, Let me ask you, is he going to vote for Obama?' I thought he was going to vote for Obama. I don't know, I thought he possibly did. Romney? I was very disappointed. One of the reasons I was disappointed is he called Christie and they had dinner right after the election. If Christie did that to me, I would have never spoken to him again. I woulda never done it. And he knows it is wrong. He is going to say, no, no, no, we don't want that, Ford. We don't want you to go. We are going to charge you of tax because, you know, the way you do it, you charge a tax. And then he is going to be hit by his lobbyists. They give him millions. He has $135, $140 million. I don't want anything. I don't want money. I'm just taking little small contributions for people. The woman said $7. And I was so, with a beautiful letter. It's amazing. I like that because that's like an investment. That adds up to the fuel for the plane for a trip to Iowa, OK? It all does, but who cares? I don't want that because I don't want to be controlled. Last week, you heard me say this. I turned down $5 million by a big lobbyist. Not a bad person. You know, a tough guy. Not a bad person. But when he gives me $5, he's not doing that because he thinks I have beautiful hair. It's not that bad. And it is my hair. Is it my hair? It is. It is actually. People don't know that. I proved that, you know, in Alabama. It was really hot. It was rainy. I took off my hat and everybody said it is really his hair. It's weird. I don't have to do that tonight. Sort of nice. But you know, so we would go over and the lobbyists would say, no, no, we gave you millions of dollars, Mr. President. And you owe it to Ford. Let. You have the lobbyists. You have. And after about ten minutes he is going to say I can't really do that. They really helped me in my campaign. With me, they're going to call me because I know all these guys. But they never did anything because I don't want money. I turned the money down. I turned down so much money. I feel like such a stupid person. No, it's true. First time in my life I feel stupid. Guys are giving me, offering me millions. Don, I would like to give you million. Wait, I'm telling you, $5 million. I could have it right now and I turn them down. I go back and say, do you think I'm doing the right thing? How about , I will just take a vote. How about if I take all these money and promise, I swear to you, that I won't do anything for these people. What about that? No? That's what I thought. I feel so stupid. But you know what? That's the way it has to be. Because I think one of the things they like about me is they don't, nobody is going to buy me. Nobody is going to buy me. All right. So after about ten minutes, Bush goes out and he says, all right, you can build your plant. Build it. I'm sorry. Please, I dare me. I mean, it was so terrible that I even thought about doing that, you know, because you contributed money. OK. Me, different. I'll call him up and say I have to go. I don't want you in Mexico. I love Mexico. I love the Mexican people. I have thousands have Mexican people that have worked for me over the years and even to this day. I mean, I love the Hispanics. The spirit. I love them. They are incredible people. But we have leaders that can't compete with their leaders. Their leaders are too smart. So I would say to the head of Ford, sorry. You will pay tax. Every car and every truck and every part that comes across that southern border, you're going to pay a 35 percent tax. OK? That's what's going to happen. And this is too easy. I don't need any of the killers. I'm going to use them anyway. But this is too easy. This is like forget it. This is taking candy from that beautiful little baby, OK. So easy. So what happens is they're going to say, no, no, no, and they're going to have people call me. But these are people that I didn't take any money, I didn't take anything. I don't want their money. So they are going to have people call me. And I'm going to say get out of here. And if I know them, they'll be friends of mine, maybe. I'll say I'm not interested. And I would say, let's say this whole process starts at 12:00 noon. I would say by 4:00 in the afternoon, the head of Ford will call me and say Mr. President, we've decided to build in the United States. That will happen. OK? That will happen. If they're really tough, they'll wait until the next day. But I guarantee you by 5:00 the next day, they're back. And that's great. That's what we need. We need jobs. We can't keep giving out our jobs. You know, college debt. I go all over and I see the vets are mistreated in this country so badly. Believe me. You know, they did a poll. I'm like the most popular person with the vets. You know, I built the Vietnam memorial in downtown Manhattan, OK. And the vets like me a lot. And they did a poll and people were shocked. Why would you be shocked? Because I'm going to take care of the vets. The other one, college. College debt. It is out of control. And I go around and I see students. And by the way, you see what's happening with the college? I mean, you talk about like what they're doing. The prices of these colleges. The way they're rapidly raising. And students are borrowing money from different people but also from the government. It is the thing that the government makes money on, college students. No, it's true. They're making a lot of money on college debt. And the big thing we need is jobs. And students come up to me and they say, Mr. Trump, I'm borrowed and I can't even, I don't know how I'll ever pay it off. This is somebody that is a junior or a senior in college. And it is almost like they have no hope. To me, it is one of the saddest things I've seen in making the rounds. College students, college debt. And they say, and then I apply for jobs. One was telling me from a very good college. Actually a college in Iowa where I was, a great college. And they were saying, you know, I worked hard. I became a great student. I just became one of the top students in my college. And I can't get a job, he said. And a lot of them can't get jobs. So now they have the debt and they can't get jobs because China has our jobs and Japan has our jobs and so many other places have our jobs. We don't have jobs. So they get out and there is no place to go and they don't know what to do. We're going to solve the problem because we're going to bring back the jobs from China and we are going to bring back the jobs from Japan. And we're going to be fair. But if you look at the deficit, the trade deficit that we have with China, it is astronomical. People have said how are going to balance the budget? How about like making some good deals with China and Japan? Look at the trade deficits. I was in Los Angeles two weeks ago. I saw ships that were so big. I've never seen anything like it with cars from Japan. They're pouring off. We sell them, actually, you sell them some beef, right? This is one of the beneficiaries, beef. But honestly, if you ever look at the difference, the numbers here, it is so crazy. We send wheat. They send cars. That's all going to change. And we're going to have great relationships with these people. And you know, the amazing thing, every country in the world, thinks the United States is represent by stupid people, and they're right, of course. No, they're wrong. Very stupid people. And every country in the world, I mean, every country in the world, everybody makes money. And the funny things is we don't get along with anybody. Think of it. Here we have deals that are all bad and everybody hates us. I just came in. And I'm watching on television. That we're really in a very bad place with Russia. Now, we're working on the Ukraine and I think that is fine, but why isn't Europe sort of like leading that whole charge? Why do we always leading? We're working on the Ukraine. I think that's terrible and all that stuff. We've got a lot of problems. We're sending an f,22, brand new, gorgeous. And we have fighters, our best military people are going over there. And we're worried about the Ukraine. I think Ukraine is great. I think we should worry about the Ukraine. But you know, Germany is over there. Germany is far richer than we are. Germany has made a fortune. We protect Germany for no money, OK. We protect South Korea for no money. So Germany is over there, right? And they're not worried about it. But Obama is talking about the Ukraine. Germany said let these dopey people take care of us. And all the European countries. So we are sending our fighters. Now in North Korea, you have a situation where, you know, he's raring his head again. I just were had 4000 sets for. And 4000, that's a lot of sets. They're all made in South Korea. They don't make them in Iowa. I wish. Does anyone make television sets? They don't make them in Iowa. They don't make them anywhere in this country. So I ordered 4000. Samsung, it is LG, it is all of them. Right? They're all from South Korea. Sony is from Japan. Their sets aren't as good anymore, but that's OK. But they're good sets. They are great. I paid a fortune. Enough saying, they make a fortune. Look at the deficit that we have that South Korea. I love South Korea. I love all these countries. But why is it that we protect them? So this guy raises his head. Nuclear this, I'm going to wipe them out. We immediately send, we have 28000 troops over there which is nothing compared to the million that they have in North Korea, a big army. OK. They don't pay us anything. What are we doing? And you know what? Somebody said that's not nice. You're asking them to pay. How can we police? We're watching the Ukraine, we are watching South Korea, we are watching Germany, we are watching Japan. We protect Japan. We have a treaty with Japan. If Japan gets attacked, we have to immediately go to their aid. OK? If we get attacked, Japan doesn't have to help us. That's a fair deal. No, no, that's the kind of deals we make. They have nothing. Don't worry about it. But if they get attacks, we have to go to Japan. Did you ever fly, that's a long flight. So we need smart people. And we can straighten this country out. We can make this country so, we can make it better than ever. We can make it better than ever. Saudi Arabia, I love Saudi Arabia. The people are very nice to me. They buy my apartments, you wouldn't believe it. It's true. They'll pay me anything. They have nothing but money. They have nothing but money. I have a beautiful plane. All of a sudden it doesn't look so good when I look at some of their planes. I'm jealous. It's terrible. I'm jealous. No, but Saudi Arabia, they make a billion dollars a day. In all fairness, that was before the, you know, oil went down. But now, let's say it is a half a billion. That's pretty good. You make a half billion a day. We protect them. We get nothing. And every time, if you think in Yemen those folks are after Yemen, then you ought to leave the room right now because you are not very smart. Yemen, did you ever see the border? It never ends. It is a straight line. It never ends. And you know what is on the other side, Saudi Arabia? The oil. If you think they are stopping at Yemen, they're looking for the oil. Don't forget I'm the one, the most militaristic person. I would build a military so strong, so powerful, so incredible, nobody would ever use it. Nobody would ever, we would never have to use it. I would have the best everything. You know, we have a military where we give to the allies, our allies. We give it to the wrong allies, by the way. You know that. We give it to the wrong allies. We don't give to the Kurds. We give to people. One bullet shot in the air, 2300 humvees, the best in the world. So I heard they left. And one day they abandoned 2300. I said no, no, no, you mean 23. You mean three. You mean two. You can't leave 2300. They abandoned 2300 armor plated, the best in the world humvees, 2300. Because one shot was fired in the air. These are the people we're helping. These are the people we're helping. And now the enemy has the humvees armor plated. And we have the ones where the non armored plated and our wounded warriors who are the greatest people we have in this country. They are the greatest. The greatest. And our soldiers aren't protected. And the enemy is because they have these great vehicles that they took. And that's just the humvees. You can go on to everywhere. They have the best equipment. So we have to get smart. And we have to know what we're doing. And I would build, I'm telling you. I am so into it. But in 2000, and Ann Coulter knows this. In 2004, as much as I am into the military, which I love and respect. I'm a huge fan of General Patton. I'm a huge fan of General Douglas MacArthur. To this day, he has the highest marks, I'm a person I believe in like marks and students and education. I think it is great. General Douglas MacArthur to this day has the highest rates in the history of west point. That means something. Nice thing. And we have to do something and we have to do it fast. We have to get the generals that are great. There was a general, I won't use his name, but he's leaving. And they said to him the other day about ISIS on television, what do you think about ISIS? Can we beat them? Oh, I don't know. I don't know. It's going to be very hard to beat ISIS. And I said to myself can you imagine George Patton saying, oh, it would be hard? He would have them knocked out in three days and say where do I go from here? Where? Where? General Douglas MacArthur getting out with his corn cob pipe right out of the airplane looking out over the land that he just took. Can you imagine him? First of all they wouldn't go on television. They're too busy fighting. They want to win. They are too busy winning. We don't have winners anymore. We don't have winners in this country. But we're going to turn it around. We are going to have winners. Now, speaking of winners, this is so important. We all know about trade. We've covered it. It is horrendous. I'm going to get the greatest negotiations. We're going to make great trades. We're going to make a lot of money. We are going to be great. Everyone is going to love us, OK? We have, they're going to love us. So you know, funny before, in Business Week magazine, again, they had a story a while ago. The ten things the Chinese most want. Now, who is tougher, the Chinese on me? I love them and I respect them. I just hate what they do to. But who is tougher than me? The ten things, one of the ten things was anything Trump. Apartments, anything. Anything Trump. I say how could that be possible? Because maybe they respect me or maybe they respect us. I don't know. But anything Trump. OK. So we're going to be respected. We are going to be really respected. We shouldn't to go to Iraq. We did. We made a mistake. But we went out. We should have kept the oil. And you would have ISIS believe. You wouldn't have. Now, people say that's such a harsh statement. She said take oil? Who the hell has the oil? The Iraqi government is totally corrupt. ISIS is, just formed out of Iraq. So we shouldn't have gone in. And then the way Obama got out was a total catastrophe. And then I say total catastrophe. And I said, Reuters, 2004, July. I said don't go in because if you do that in Iraq, and I'm one that likes to be, like I love the strength of military. You have to use it in the right location. If you do that, you're going to allow Iran to take over because you are going to decapitate. They would two powers that were equal. They fight. They would go ten feet, ten feet, ten feet, then they rest. This goes on for decades. They go ten, ten, right? Am I right? So we decapitate one of them. Now, Iran is as we speak, meeting with Iraq to take over the country. And you know who is getting the oil, most of the oil? The stuff that ISIS doesn't have? China. Do you know that China is getting so much oil? Do you know what we get? Nothing. Thousands of lives. Wounded warriors who I love all over. $2 trillion, we have nothing. In Afghanistan, which a lot of people don't know not, it is very rich in minerals. We're fighting in Afghanistan and they have very amazing mountains and ridges. We are fighting in Afghanistan over the years. And on the other side of the mountain, they have massive excavation equipment from China. They're taking out all the minerals as we fight. We need people that are smart. We have people that don't get it. Look at the deal we have with Iran. Look at this deal. It is going to, in my opinion, lead to an arm race the likes of which there has never been. Countries are going to line up for nukes. You are going to have perhaps nuclear proliferation. You are going to see things that you have never seen take place in a short period of time. This is the deal that just the other day, it was determines after months. Did you ever see a deal take so long? The deal has been going on forever. They had our prisoners. We never asked for our prisoners. How about that? Having a deal is good. But we should have doubled and tripled up the sanctions and negotiate from strengths. We could have done it so easily. Instead we have Kerry that goes on bicycle races. He's 73 years old. 73 years old! And I said it the last time I spoke. I swear I will never enter a bicycle race if I'm president. I swear. I swear! He's in a bicycle race. He falls. He breaks his leg. This is our chief negotiator. He is walking in. They're looking at him like what smock this is. I watched actually on Charlie Rose. I watched the chief negotiator being interviewed by Charlie. And after five minutes, I tweeted @realDonaldTrump. I tweeted. I said this guy is too smart for Kerry. I was right. So we didn't get the prisoners. And you know what the excuse was? We didn't ask for them. We didn't want to make the deal too complicated. Think of it. They're fighting us in Yemen. We didn't ask anything about Yemen. Like don't fight us. We have a 24 day wait period. So if we think they're doing nuclear, we have to wait 24 days. But see, that's not the worst part. The worst part is the clock start ticking. It could be months. We have to notify. There is whole process. I mean, they could build, shoot and build a couple more shoot. And by that time we still wouldn't be in there checking. Like I can just see them sweeping the floor and painting it battle shipment gray. You know, when I was with my father in Brooklyn, I used paint the Roger's battleship gray. I would always like. You know what I mean by battleship gray? Shiny battleship gray. I can see them doing it. So what we're doing is crazy. So you have that. And then beauty of all and you heard it two days ago. After years, we just found out that they're going to do in the most important section, they're going to do their own inspections. Did you hear this? Iran. They are going to do their own inspections. Did you hear about this? With some of these guys didn't hear? Where the hell have you been for the last three days? Look at these guys. They're smart guys. Three days ago I heard it. Nobody knew. They are going to self inspect. It is so unbelievable that you just can't even talk about it. And here is another part. We're going to give them $150 billion plus. And even if the deal isn't approved, they get that. In other words, they get that regardless. You know, when I do a deal, when I buy something, I pay them when I guy product, right? Whatever it is. I buy a building. I buy a business. I pay them. I put up a deposit and, right? But I pay them when the deal closes. We're paying them even if the deal doesn't happen. I've never heard of this before. I don't know who came one this idea. It must have been Kerry. No, it must have been. Because I don't think the Iranians. You know, the Iranians, Persians are great negotiators. They are natural great negotiators. I don't believe they would have thought of this because it is so crazy. No, it's true. They wouldn't have actually said, let's do this because it is so far out. Who would have ever think of it? They get $150 billion plus, plus, even if the deal is voted down and the deal doesn't happen which the deal will probably happen because we have a lot of weak people that are going to approve that deal just like they approved Obamacare. You know, you elected people who would knock out Obamacare. They got to Washington. Something happened. I promise it is not going to happen to me. Something happens in Washington. They get elected. They're really going to do a job. They are all. We're going to end Obamacare. We're going to fight. We are going to end this horrible thing with the $5 billion Web site that doesn't work to this day, by the way, $5 billion. I have about 40 websites that cost me $3 and they work. So we're going to end Obamacare. You probably elected some of them of they go to Washington. I don't know. There is something about Washington. They look at the beautiful buildings, these beautiful halls. And all of a sudden, they become impotent. Is that an appropriate word? I think so. They become just, it doesn't work. Put those two together. Something happens to them. And all of a sudden they're not fighters. I think they're so impressed. They show their wives. Look where I'm working. I'm working in Congress. Of course I have to vote for Obamacare. Isn't it wonderful? Look what I am doing. But they got elected to knock it out. What happened to these people? What happened? So something happens when people get elected and go to Washington. The beauty of Washington. I'm building as you know, the old post office. Can you imagine? President Obama is in charge of government services who are tremendous people, by the way. They really are. They are very talented people. That's because they chose me. If they didn't choose me, I probably wonderful say that. But they are talented. They are great people. Now, we're doing a great hotel, one of the greatest hotels. I think it will be one of the greatest hotels anywhere in the world. But think of it. Everybody wanted it. One of the most sought after pieces of property right smack on Pennsylvania between Congress and the White House. Best location. You know, for the real estate people, they notice that any time you get a post office, it's good. You know, the post office was always there first. I have the old post office in Washington, DC So it is being converted to Trump international. It is going to be great. And just think of that. I got it from the Obama administration. To this day, I say, are you sure we got that? I tell you. But we're doing a great job. And here's the thing. We are head of , think of this. Compare this to government. We're way ahead of schedule. And we're under budget. Did you ever hear that before? You don't hear that. So we have a great country. We have a country with tremendous potential. The potentials here are people. We have great people. We have problems all over the place, but they're problem that's can be solved. We have to incentivize people. We have to give people spirit. When President Obama was elected, one thing I thought would happen, I really thought he would be a unifier. You look at Baltimore, you look at Ferguson, you look at St. Louis the other night, you look at Chicago, you look at so many different places, and you look at what's happening with the African American youth. It has never been in worse shape. Never. You look at what's happening with so many other aspects of our country. And there's a racial divide, there is a divide, period. There's hatred all over the country. I've never seen it like this. We have to unify the country. We have to spiritize the country. We have to create jobs. We have to do a tremendous amount of work. But it can be done quickly. I will say this. If the right person is not elected, come next year, I don't know if it can be brought back again no matter how confident and capable the person is. It is going to be too far down the line. No, it is going to be too far down the line. So just in closing, and you know, normally I would do questions. But this has been such a good time and everyone has heard such a brilliant speech. And you know, I was with Elton John. Anybody like Elton John? And a lot of times, like he'll do this last song. And it is so great. It is so unbelievable. The place is standing and roaring and going incredible. And then they'll be like, they'll come back for like three more, right? And the three are not as good as the last one. And people go, let's get out of here. So you know, you like to leave on a high note. And I just like to say this is a great audience. But I have, thank you. I love you too. Thank you. But you know, I have a statement. I say it all the time. And I told the story once before. And it is that the American dream is dead. But I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than before. Right? Good. But I got home one night. And my wife said that was such a terrible thing you said. It was all over television. And the problem I have with television, look. They're all live. What do I do? Every night I'm on live television. I suppose to make speeches. How do you make the same speech? I'm trying to change it up. But every night, CNN, FOX, NBC, everybody. Look at them. They're all live. It's not fair. No, no. These other guys, they go around, they make a speech in front of 21 people. Nobody cares. They make the , they read the same speech. They have Teleprompters. I say we should outlaw Teleprompters for anybody, right? For anybody, for anybody running for president. You how easy that would be? Instead of this. I'm working my ass off. OK? Instead of this I can just stand up. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, it's wonderful to be in Iowa. You know, everybody is going to fall sleep and half an hour we leave. No mistakes. No problems. But I walk in but they are always live, these guys. I think we are going, let's start canceling them a little bit. And by the way, they're getting phenomenal ratings. That's why they're live. They're getting phenomenal ratings. And you know, the old days, when I was with the Apprentice, they paid me a lot of money. They don't pay me anything. You know, for the debate, we had 24 million people. Now, normally there would be like two million people, right? When you say two million if they are lucky. They had 24. I won't take credit for but believe me, 100 percent it's me, 100 percent. It's true. It's true. So the ratings came out. They were so big and so, it was the biggest rating in the history of cable television or something like that. And you know, I was a little obvious, but that is OK. So it happens. I'm saying to myself well, if it's not me, I should go to CNN. They're doing the next debate. And I should I say that Jeff Zucker, a great guy, Jeff, I'm going to do the debate but I want $10 million for charity. American cancer society, AIDS research. We'll pick ten great, a million. Otherwise I'm not going to the debate. And honestly, I think they would pay me. I do. I'm, 100 percent for charity. But it might not look right, I don't know, Ann. I'm going to have to think about it. I sort of like it. Does anybody like that idea? Then we go to Roger Ailes. He is a great guy at FOX and we say Roger, you know, they did so great at CNN. You did so great at FOX. Let's make it like 12, 15, 18, all for charity. But I'm thinking about it, I am thinking about it, believe me. So I go home, my wife says to me, you know, what are you doing? What are you doing? It was a horrible thing you said. I said, why? What did I say? You said the American dream is dead. I said, I didn't say that. I turned on the television. TiVo is wonderful. I turn it on and they have it cut. It is the American dream is dead. Cut. I said, what a terrible statement. But what I do say, and I say it all the time, the American dream is to a large extent, it is in trouble, but we're going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. And, and we are going to win the nomination, and we are going to get the greatest people that have ever represented, we'll get the smartest, toughest, best people to represent us against the world. And we are going to make our country so great again, you're going to be so proud of it. And it is an honor to be with you tonight, and I really look forward to being with you for many, many years to come. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Donald Trump finishing a speech in Dubuque, Iowa. It lasted more than 50 minutes, walking off to Twisted Sister, We're not Going to Take It, the theme song there. Hello, everyone. I'm John Berman, sitting in for Anderson tonight. What a night it was in Dubuque, where in addition to this 50 plus minute speech, Donald Trump also gave a news conference, and man, were there fireworks there. Univision anchor Jorge Ramos got bounced, thrown out of the room, then invited back. There were more shots as well from Mr. Trump aimed at Jeb Bush. A lot to talk about tonight, so let's bring in our panel. Amanda Carpenter, former communications director for Senator Ted Cruz. Republican strategist Alex Castellanos. Republican consultant and former top Trump campaign adviser, Roger Stone, and CNN political commentator Peter Beinart, who also teaches journalism and political science at the City University of New York and is a contributing editor for Atlantic Media. Amanda, let me start with you, let's start on the speech. We have a lot to go over tonight, including Jorge Ramos getting thrown out of the news conference. But let's start with the speech. 50 minutes, hit a lot of subjects. Another way to say it is it was rambling. He talked about Iran, he talked about immigration, he talked about the economy, he talked about China and he talked about The Apprentice. What struck you? Thank you very much. I see these beautiful teleprompters. Believe me, I'm not using them. You know I said if you run for president you should not be allowed to use teleprompters. Get these things out of here. I was watching Hillary making a speech and it was outside. And they were dead, dark, big. They weren't even like this. These are clears. I can almost see right through them, but, which really is disturbing. Is that disturbing to the audience, wouldn't you think? But hers, because it was outside, were black, and they were twice the size. I said what kind of a speech is that? That's not a speech. Most importantly, I brought my Bible. Okay? And, you know, it's First Presbyterian Church, Jamaica. And this was written by my mother with my name, with, it was a long time ago, with my name, with my address, with everything. In case I lost it, somebody would return it. You know, in the old days, if you lost something, they returned it; today a little bit less so. But I saw this and I said I have to bring it and just show it, because it brings back so many memories. It's really an honor to be here. And, you know, David is a fantastic guy. He's done an amazing job. And we had some big news today with Boehner. And, you know, I've been saying for a long time, and I was just telling, actually, David, who said, by the way, I'm not a politician and I'm not politically correct. And I think that's a great thing. I just am so tired. I'm so tired of the political, I love this guy over here. Thank you. I'm so tired of the time and the effort of all of this. We don't have time. We have a country that's in such danger and such trouble. To be politically correct, every word is measured. And I can do it. I went to great schools. I went to an Ivy League school. So easy to do it. But who wants to do it? We have to get to business. I mean, we have to just get back to business. But we're going to have a very interesting period of time. And maybe it starts today, because Speaker Boehner, you know, some people like him on a personal basis. Do people like him on a personal basis? Anybody? You know, we want to see, we want to see the job being done properly. We want to see, we want people that are going to get it done. And I don't understand. They get elected. They're full of vim and vigor. They're going to change things. They're going to get rid of Obamacare. They're going to do all of these things. They come down to these magnificent vaulted ceilings that you see all over Washington. And what happens? They become different people. They become different people. They come out and they don't do it. And I will say, you know, for the groups that want to take what they say is a harsh tone, I wrote The Art of the Deal. And I will tell you, The Art of the Deal, if they would have read it, some of, and I'm talking about the Republicans. We know where the Democrats are coming from. But we are so disappointed in the Republican establishment, because if they stuck together, in all fairness, you have a certain group of 10 percent, 12 percent of Republicans that are out there fighting, fighting. But when the other side, which is Obama and the Democrats, when they hear that they're not going to win and they have no support, there's no way, from The Art of the Deal, there's no way that they can possibly win, that the Republicans can win. So they're out there. They're left hanging so many different times. If they actually were unified, if they were brought together and unified, and you said four very important things that you're going to take very, very strong, harsh measures, you're going to win, because nobody's going to, in 50 years from now, in 100 years from now, in two years from now, and even next month, nobody's going to be talking about the speaker. Nobody's going to be talking about any of the, they're going to be saying let's say something very important. The government shut down. They're blaming the president, folks. They're blaming the president. And, you know, it's sort of interesting. When you hear the Democrats, they're very, very good, very, very good. They go, oh, we want the government to shut down. We want it to shut down. That would be so great if it shut down. It would be so wonderful if it shut down. And the Republicans say, oh, they want it to shut down. Oh, that would be bad. We're playing right into their hands. These people are babies. Do you remember when they said they want to impeach, do you remember, no, they're babies. They're babies. Do you remember when they said they wanted to impeach, a small group wanted to impeach Obama? Right? Remember? And then the Democrats said, no, no, we want him to be impeached. We want him to be impeached. Please impeach him. It would be so good for him. It will make him look so good. And he'll get all of his points out. It'll be wonderful. Do you really think they want him to be impeached? So the Republicans come back. I was just telling the folks backstage, the Republicans come back. Oh, we don't want to do that because he wants to be. Who wants to be impeached? Oh, it's so sad. I mean, you know, like, you have this clown, Marco Rubio. I've been so nice to him. I've been so nice. I've been so nice. And then, no, but he's in favor of immigration, and he has been. He has been. It was the gang of eight. And you remember the gang of eight. It was terrible. And then he went down in the polls. And you have to stay. You know what? If you believe in something, you have to be true to yourself. You have to be. You have to be. But it was the gang of eight and it was really, really, you talk about weak on immigration; nobody weaker. And all of a sudden he goes down in the polls and all of a sudden he starts changing his tone. But you never really change your tone. You remember that. And also, when you're elected senator, you have to go and vote. It's so important. You can't say I can't vote. And he's got the worst record. And he hit me. And I said why is he doing that? And sometimes the Republicans do it more than anybody because they want to sort of catch on. They want to get into the publicity cycle. And all you're doing is hurting yourselves. I mean, it's a bad thing. All you're doing is hurting yourselves. Now, we have so many people that can be and should be attacked. We have a president that is extremely bad for everything that the folks in this room stand for, I mean, extremely bad. You know, freedom of religion, so important. We just don't see it. You know, you take a look at a thing like the Iran deal. We talk freedom of religion, look at the Iran, how long is this whole thing going to last when we have incompetent people, grossly incompetent people negotiating these vital deals like that deal where 24 days and all, I don't have to go over all of the many problems with the deal. Even Israel, Israel is in such trouble with this deal. And you know in that deal probably it says, and nobody even understands what says, which is a problem, but probably if Israel ever attacked Iran, we're supposed to come to their defense. Do we know that? Nobody's able to tell us what is going on with respect to that. If Israel has to, because at some point something might happen. The deal is horrible. The deal is horrible, from any standpoint. And we have to do something. And I can say it's going to have to be renegotiated. You know, I've made a living of buying bad, I love bad deals, because you buy them cheap, do you understand that? You buy them cheap. I love horrible contracts. I love buying, I bought them from friends of mine. I buy a horrible, horrible contract. The poor guy is dying with it. He's getting killed. I buy it cheap. I then go and fight like hell and make it a great contract. Sometimes you chapter it, some, you do lots of different things, whatever you have to do. And you make it a great contract. That contract, that agreement has to be changed. We have no choice, because if it isn't you're going to have nuclear proliferation, it's already happening. You're going to have potentially the destruction of Israel. It has to be changed. One of the things in that contract that I cannot believe, we're giving them $150 billion. Right? No, we're giving them $150 billion of which they're going to use, and already are using, they're ordering missiles from Russia. They're doing things that probably and definitely we can't allow them to do. But they're doing it. We cannot allow the incompetence that we've had going on in this country. We just can't, we have to use our greatest negotiations. We have to use our smartest people. We use political hacks, they're all political hacks. They're negotiating deals that they should, they have no right doing it. Take a look at another thing, one thing, and, look, nuclear's so important, but you have four prisoners. One of them's over there because he's a Christian. He's over in jail because he's a Christian. Now, at the beginning of the negotiation, by the way, it used to be three at the beginning, now it's four. But you say very simply before you start, fellas, and by the way I have to say, to the women, it's all fellas over there. They haven't figured out that women are smarter than men. They haven't figured this out yet. A little detail. They'll figure. It'll take another 150 years, but they'll figure it. You say, fellas, you got to give us back our prisoners. You got to do it. You got to do it. No, you got to do it. You got to give us back our prisoners. Now, they went to Kerry who is, you know, broke his leg playing, this guy's in a bicycle race, can you believe it? He's in a bicycle race. He's got the hat. He's got the emblem. I said, what's he doing? He as actually in a race. It wasn't just like let's get a little exercise. Breaks his leg. This is our negotiator, all right? So he walks in, he walks in with crutches. And they say, what the hell is with this guy? Is he crazy? We have to very simply, as an example, that example. You walk in at the beginning, not the end, not the end. You say, fellas, before we start, you have four prisoners. You don't want them. We do. It would send a great signal to the American people. It'll make the deal much easier. You'll make another deal. It'll make it much easier. You got to give us back. If they say no, you take a walk because you know you're not going to get anything. You take a walk. You take a walk. And I guarantee you, I guarantee you, as sure as you're sitting there, that within a short period of time they call back, you have your prisoners, you have them. But here's the worst, it isn't even, and you need the right messenger. If I'm the messenger, you get those prisoners back. I tell you what, I tell you what, I'll make this statement. If I get elected president, before I ever get to office, I guarantee you they will be back, I guarantee 100 percent. A hundred, that's a hundred percent. But you need the right messenger. And in the case of the prisoners, they never even asked. Can you believe it? They said, both Obama and Kerry said we didn't want to complicate the negotiations. No, no, I mean, this was really a statement. We don't want to complicate. So it's time. I'm a business man. I made a tremendous amount of money, a tremendous amount. It's ridiculous. I mean, I don't even believe it myself. You want to know the truth? I don't even believe it. I'm self funding, I don't want to have the lobbyists and the special interests put money into my campaign. I'm turning down, by the way, I'm turning down millions of dollars. I've turned down millions and millions of dollars. I actually feel foolish because it's so anti me. It' so, like, it's not me. But I turn down millions and millions. And yet, you know, I was in Iowa two weeks ago. And I had a great audience. We had a, we've had just such great people and great crowds. And I said to the people, do you mind if I take millions of dollars? I promise you I won't do anything for the people giving me the money? Do you mind? And they all stood up and they said no, no, no. It was really important. I didn't know it was going to be that important. Anyway, I think self funding's great. I'm the only one that's self funding. Everyone else, believe me, whether it's Bush, who by the way, along with Rubio, but whether it's Bush or anybody in favor of common core. I mean, I think of it. Now, you talk from a Christian standpoint. You want local school representation. You want local. Common Core is a disaster. But you people that really are tough and smart. You look at another thing, trade. That's what I'm, oh, I'm going to do so good. I always say I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. That I tell you. That I tell you. You know, people say, and actually, CNN did a poll and I come out so high on that, on the economy. And by the way, like much, much higher, not even close. I come out the highest by far on that. And leadership, I come out high on leadership. And I come out high on really other categories. Then I say, if I'm so high in all these categories, why do we even have to have an election, right? Why? Why? But a woman stood up, because I didn't sue, you know, the one thing I was a little weak on, people were not sure I was a nice person. And I am. I am. I am. I am, I'm a giving person. I believe in God. I believe in the Bible. I'm a Christian. I'm, you know, I have a lot of reasons. I love, I love people. But the woman stood up. She said, Mr. Trump, I'm a big fan of yours and I'm going to vote for you, but I don't know if you're nice enough to get elected. I said, I really think I'm a nice person, but let me tell you something: I really think this is going to be an election based on competence. We need now competence. And we have to have something. We, we need help. We owe China $1 trillion. Think of it. They suck our money out, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. How does that work? Not so good. No, we owe them. Supposed to be the other way around, right? Japan. We owe them the exact same amount, $1 trillion. They sell us cars, biggest boats you've ever seen coming into the harbors. You've never seen boats, I've never seen ships like this. They're loaded, loaded with cars. So they send millions of cars over here. We sell them beef, beef. They don't want it. Half the time they send it back. They want to send it back. The farmers over there don't want it. So we take it back. That's not good beef by the time you get it back. I said the other day, no, no, I say it's aged; now they call it Kobe beef and we sell it for more money, you know, it's one of the,. But, but you look at the imbalance, the US trade, I mean, look at, look at the US trade. China, almost $400 billion a year we lose. Japan, $75 billion a year. Mexico, they all say the fence. First of all, we are going to build a wall, and it's going to be a real wall, OK? If people like it or don't, we're going to build a wall. And it's going to have a big, beautiful door, and people are coming to come into the country, but they're going to come in legally. They're going to come into the country legally. And when people graduate number one in their class from Harvard and Yale, we don't send them out. And they want to stay in the country. You know, there was a case the other day I read about where somebody, a great student at a great school, couldn't stay. From India, couldn't stay in the country, no matter what. And they forced him out. And he founded a company a few years ago in India, 5000 employees, one of the most successful companies, an unbelievable job. We could have had him here, and we force them out. Silicon Valley needs people. We all need people. But we force these incredible people that have been in our system for years, we force them out. They graduate, boom, get out. So we've got to be smart. We've got to be tough. We can't allow our veterans to be treated the way they're treated. They're treated horribly. They're treated horribly. And our military? If I win, we're going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful nobody will ever mess with us, folks. We are really in serious trouble. You have, you have Putin the other day, not so long ago, saying, you know, they better be careful, we have nuclear missiles. I've never heard, you know, coming from Russia. But you have North Korea, you have so many other places. I brought up recently, you know, during the debate, anybody watch the debate, by any chance? How did I do? How did I do? Right? I won every single poll, and yet these media people, oh, Donald Trump didn't, I won every poll. I won Drudge. I love Drudge. I love Drudge. But I won Drudge. I won Time magazine. I won every single poll, Slate, places I never even heard of. I won every poll. Then I turn on the television and even, I think the Fox poll had me at second, and they, they wouldn't say it. They wouldn't tell. They wouldn't say I was in second. Other polls, they said I did great. Then I'm listening to some of the pundits. I won't use their name, because actually some of them are getting better, you know, as I get higher and higher. We're doing great. In fact, with Evangelicals in Iowa, just came out, I'm number one at 29 percent, substantially ahead of anyone else. I'm happy about that. You know why? That's the reason. That's the reason. But, but we have to be careful, as Christians. The progressives are pushing, the progressives are pushing to an extent that, if we're not careful, we're going to have some big problems, and even bigger than we have right now. Look, we need people that can support us. We need people that are strong and smart and can back us. The word Christmas, I love Christmas. I love Christmas. You go to stores now, you don't see the word Christmas. It says Happy Holidays all over. I say, where's Christmas? I tell my wife: don't go to those stores. I want to see Christmas. No, I want to see Christmas. And you know, other people can have their holidays, no. But Christmas is Christmas. I want to see Merry Christmas. Remember the expression Merry Christmas? You don't see it anymore. You're going to see it if I get elected, I can tell you right now. I can tell you right now. So I just want to thank you for the, it's been an amazing group of people. You've been amazing. And to have such a fantastic room. But I just want to thank everybody. You know, I got into this and everyone said, there's no way he'll ever do it, he's got this wonderful company, he's got, I do. I have a wonderful life. But I see what's happening. I see what's happening with the country. I see so many things going wrong, so many things that are caused really by incompetence, that can be straightened out. We can straighten it out fairly quickly. I will tell you if we don't stop it now, however, it's going to be, at some point it's going to be too late. You're not going to be able to turn it. You're not going to be able to turn it. But I got in and they said, you know, he'll never do it. So I did it. They all said, oh, he did it. Then they'll say, he'll never file, like, form A, which is basically a single page where you're signing your life away. I signed it. I signed form A. They said, oh, I don't believe it. Then they said he'll never put in his financials because maybe he's not as big financially as everybody thinks. I put in my, almost a hundred pages, like the biggest ever filed by far, by far, and I had it ahead of, but you know, they said, oh, he'll ask for all the extensions. And you had some of the politicians asking for extensions and they were one page. I put it in ahead of schedule, and it turned out the company was much bigger than anybody thought, much stronger. It was, it's an amazing company, right? So they said, this guy might be running. Then I go with the polls, and the polls go up just like the Evangelicals in Iowa. The polls, I start, bing, bing, bing, bing. And every single two or three weeks, when the polls come out, they said, well, now he's reached his cap. I started at 6 percent. It went to 9 percent. It went to 12 percent. It was like a rocket ship, right? You've seen it. I mean, I'm not telling you anything. And, and it went to 20 percent and it went to 22 percent. Then it went, and then the other day, in a Fox poll, it went up 2 percent. And I'm killing everybody. And they say, other people are surging, Trump is staying still. But I'm up! I went up. I didn't stay still. I went up 2 points, right, a big two points. And I had another one where I'm 33 percent, 33 percent, and the next one I think was like 12 percent or 15 percent, and they don't want to report it. They don't put the poll out. I said, why aren't you putting the poll out? Well, we don't like that poll. This is a great poll. It's a great poll. And they wouldn't put it out. So, you know, I get angry at these things, because you know what I like? I like fairness. Somebody said, do you have thin skin? I don't. If I'm wrong about something, I don't mind, the media can do whatever they want. But I have thin skin when I'm right about something when I know they're doing a number on all of us, because when I ran, and the reason I ran is because I want to make this country great again. And we're going to do it. We're going to do it. And we're going to do it a lot faster and a lot better than anybody thinks is possible. And I just want to thank everybody. You're special people and I love you all. And this is the key. Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. I guarantee you that young woman who just got taken out after interrupting us three times, I guarantee the cameras will be on her. I guarantee. It's disgusting, disgusting. So we're taking about the media, and by the way some of the media's terrific. But most of it, seventy percent, seventy five percent is absolute dishonest, absolute scum. Remember that scum! They're totally dishonest people. I had one the other day where I finished a speech and they said, Oh, Trump was interrupted and he left early. Like, uh, I spoke for forty five, fifty minutes. I then answered question, questions. And then I went around to you know, everybody knew it was false. Amazingly there's a media group that calls the media. And the next day they did the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from NBC. She's back there little Katy she's back there. What a lie it was, no, what a lie, Katy Tur, what a lie it was from NBC to have written that, it was a total lie. And they did a story where they, I didn't know they had a group like this, where they actually criticized the media and they said it was a total lie. And I love you, I love you, I love you. And then other people pick it up, you know it's NBC so somebody picks it up. Third rate reporter, remember that, third rate, third. It's possible. It's possible. Look, my whole campaign is about honesty. We have a problem. People said, Oh, that's not politically correct, what he said about surveillance. But we have to have some surveillance. You had to see the whole speech. It was so good. That was when Carson went down. That was the thing that totally took him down. In Iowa, big audience. No, that may have been the beginning of the end but my speech is when he really began to go down. I talked about his book and in his book he says he has pathological disease. I mean, he actually says it. There's no cure for it. I compared it to a child molester because there is no cure for child molesting, other than , well, you know. Nobody. Then I talked about taking the lock at his friend's face, taking a hammer to his mother's head. Then about the belt. You didn't see the whole speech. That's the problem with what I did and won't do again. You saw what I said and it was fine. You have to see the whole speech to understand. I started talking about it and explaining, and then I showed how it doesn't work that way. I moved over and took the belt, demonstrated what I meant. People there got it. What they do, the dishonest press does, is one second of me playing with my belt. People go, What the fuck is he doing? They don't know it was about the knife going into the belt. They haven't seen the whole speech and what I was saying about how a belt doesn't stop a knife. I was showing a knife, a knife going into a belt isn't stopped by the belt. So, if you watch the speech, it took down Carson. That was the beginning of the end for Carson. I figured I had to do it. You know the expression in golf: Johnny, he's just hanging around. The guy was just hanging around. I couldn't understand it. He was just hanging around. It's fine when you put them both in. You can't put in just the one. That's only fair. I'm a deal guy. I've been winning all of my life. Like this property. I bought it six, seven years ago. I bought it for a steal. Eight hundred acres on the Potomac River. I bought it for nothing. I could sell it for anything. I'm not selling, but I could sell it for anything. My whole life is about winning. I always win. I win at golf. I'm a club champion many times at different clubs. I win at golf. I can sink the three footer on the 18th hole when others can't. My whole life is about winning. I don't lose often. I almost never lose. In Massachusetts, I'm at 48 percent. You know why? Tom Brady said Trump's the greatest. He says it to anyone who asks him. You know, it's hard for a guy like him to say that. When you're a football player, you don't want to be taking sides in campaigns and having the Hillary Clinton people now say you're not as good as Bart Starr. You understand. So Tom Brady is great. Hey, look. I went through a depression, a real estate depression that was massive in 1990. The last one I made a lot of money because I was a buyer , like I bought this at the bottom of the market. I can tell , I'm so good at real estate, I've made billions of dollars. Tell me the day you bought the property and I'll tell you if you made a good deal. I made such a mistake with Chuck Todd because I told such a truthful , he asked me would I ever get out? I thought, Huh? I'm leading in all of the polls. Would you ever get out? I said, Look, if for some reason that I wasn't leading in the polls, that I wasn't getting the acclaim or the biggest audiences , and I'm getting the biggest crowds by far, much bigger than Bernie Sanders ever had. Nobody reports that, but anyway. We had 12000 people in Sarasota at 12 o'clock on a Saturday. Last night, we had a group in Manassas, they were so packed in. They couldn't get them in. You saw. So, I said to Chuck, honestly, if I'm down and not getting crowds, if I was down in the polls. I'm a believer in the polls by the way. Rarely do you see a poll that's very far off. Let me just say That interview was a couple of months ago. If I see that I'm not going to win, I'd get out. I'm not a masochist. I go home and I see my wife. She's always a good critic. She says, That was a great answer. Other people say the same. He hated it. I said, What's wrong? The only one who hated it was Corey. He was going like, Oh shit. But I quickly understood why. He was right. The next day, the headlines: Trump may leave race. He's a good guy, really good guy. Say hello to him for me, will you? You know, his best golf story ever was about Mike Donald, who almost won the 1990 US Open. He was leading the US Open going into the final hole. He was an early starter. A rabbit. In other words, he was a good golfer who never made $10, who was on the tour for 10 years. Leading the US Open. Had a great final round but he was in the middle of the pack. Two hours to go and everyone said he was going to win the US Open. He wasn't supposed to win the US Open because he was a rabbit. Jack Nicklaus, all the others, they're the kind of guys who usually win. So he's in the clubhouse, leading the US Open, everyone's doing great, watching it on TV. And then Hale Irwin goes crazy on the course. You remember? Irwin goes to the 18th hole, he's one down to Mike Donald, who no one had ever heard of. And Hale Irwin sinks a 97 foot putt. That was the one where he ran around the green. Now Irwin has the privilege of playing Donald in a playoff the following day. A full 18 hole playoff. Hale Irwin, naturally, wins because the other guy never wins. The champion always wins. Bamberger did one of the greatest stories ever on that. The next day they show Mike Donald, two pictures. One has him on Sunday and Monday, Mike Donald playing to thousands of people up and down the fairway, 20 rows deep, as he walks up the 18th hole at the US Open. Pictures. The next day, he doesn't win, he's seen walking up a fairway, nobody there, no money, his wife carrying the bag. If he had won, it'd have been a life changing experience. But he didn't win. Those pictures, famous, I remember them. A thing like that is always a possibility. It's never happened because I've been having this for a long time. I write a book, it becomes the Number One selling business book of all time. The Art of the Deal. All of my books have done well. The current book does well I don't even have time to promote it. Have I spent 10 minutes promoting it? I didn't take three weeks off, going all over the place to promote it. You sell thousands of books a day if you do that. So the book, the show. The Apprentice had some great run, it was the Number One show. What a lot of people don't realize is that I gave up a lot to do this not just deals but a two hour primetime television show for another two years. Don't kid yourself. I've always been there. In school, I was always successful. In life, I was always successful. My father was a successful real estate developer and he was a very tough man but a good man. My father would always praise me. He always thought I was the smartest person. He said to one of the big magazines that everything he touches turns to gold. At a very young age. So I don't know. It's the thing that number one, it's my hair. Number two, what don't people really understand? Those are the two questions I always get. Number one, my hair is real. It's me. I've seen these old pictures, I combed it the same way. Okay. I have a friend, Bill Zanker, who's a very smart guy. He said, If you didn't go through those difficulties in the early 1990s, when the press was just tearing you apart, you wouldn't be nearly as big as you are now. Again, I never went bankrupt, but I went through a lot, owed billions and billions of dollars. The press loved it, they were killing me, not talking about other people. I said to him, That's wrong. He said, No. If you didn't fight through it and become bigger than ever, you'd never be as big as you are now. Interesting thought. That's his feeling. I'm not sure if I agree. But you understand what he's saying. It showed a human something. Tell your son I think I'm a very nice person who gets along very well with people. I'm very loyal, to a fault. My wife said, You're too nice too long and then when you go bad, then you're too bad. Then she said, You get too vicious and you never forgive. You put up with too much too long. You get screwed by somebody. You're too nice, and then you flip, it's too long, too nasty, too horrible. Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. We start by paying our great respects to Pearl Harbor. We don't want that stuff. We don't want World Trade Centers. We don't want that ever happen to us again. It's not going to happen to us again. So I want to thank everybody for being here. It's a great honor. They have thousands of people outside and sometimes they'll say Would you like to wait about an hour until they all come in? But we can't get them in anyways so what difference there. We all got lucky. We're together tonight. Thank you. So we have a lot of big news today. To me, very big was CNN just came out with a new poll about an hour ago and Iowa, great, great state, and in Iowa, Trump 33 percent. Beating everybody by a lot. You have Cruz at 20 percent and Carson at 16 percent and going down and Rubio at 11 percent and Bush at 4 percent. But it's Trump at 33 percent. It just came out. It's Iowa, we love Iowa. By the way, great ship named after Iowa too. I've been on that one too. A really great one. The other big poll that came out just two days ago was the national poll. Trump 36 percent and then I won't even mention the other numbers because they're so low. You know, when you have so many people running, we had 17 and then they started to drop. Ding. Bing. I love it. I love it. And you'll be losing a lot over the next little while. I would imagine. I don't know. When somebody's down at zero I would think that eventually they'll drop out. The only difference is there's nothing to pick up if there is zero. What do you pick up? So anyways you'll be seeing that. One of the things I think that's so important because to me very important in the same poll, which is the big national CNN poll, on the economy, so important, Trump 55 percent. Everyone else nothing. On the budget, I'm really good at these things, economy, budgets. I sort of expected this. On the budget, Trump, this is with 15 people remaining, Trump 51 percent. Everyone else bing. Oh, here's one that I started and I took a lot of heat. I took a lot of heat. Sort of like the one we're talking about today. I guess you've heard a little bit about it. But I've taken a lot of heat on this one. Illegal immigration. Now, had I not brought that up in Trump Tower in June when I announced that I was going to run for president, which takes courage to run for president, believe me. You know, all of my life, I've heard that if you're a successful person, especially if you have very success, you've done a lot of things, a lot of deals, a lot of everything, you can't run for president. And yet, that's the kind of mindset and thinking this country needs. We're being run by people that don't know what they're doing. Very sad. On illegal immigration, Trump 48 percent. That's with 15 people. Everyone else, no good. On a thing called ISIS, oh, don't worry. We'll have plenty, we'll talk a lot about ISIS. Can you believe it? Here we have generals. They go on television and talk. They do all talk. You people, a lot of military people here. Who's military here? All right, I love you. By the way, speaking of it, we're going to make our military so strong, so powerful, so great, nobody's ever going to mess with us again. Nobody. They're never going to mess with us. You know in many ways, it's the cheapest thing we can do. The cheapest thing. Instead of fighting these wars that we don't know what we're doing and we have leaders that are afraid to do anything, we're going to make it so great, so strong that people, gosh, they're not messing. They're not messing. And we're going to take care of our great vets, our wounded warriors. We're going to take care of them. Because they, thank you, they are not being taken care of. We have illegal immigrants that are taken care of better than our incredible veterans and it's not going to happen any longer. Not going to happen. Not going to happen. So with ISIS, Trump 46 percent. Can you imagine that? With all of these characters running. On foreign policy, Trump way up. And you know, in theory you could say Well, maybe it's not my thing. But people want to see strong, they want to see strength, they want to see protection, they want to be protected. And that's it. I watched last night and I watched the president truly that didn't know what he was doing. He didn't know why he was there. He refuses to use the term radical Islamic terrorism. He refuses to use the term. I don't even know if he knows what the hell is going on. I really don't. And then we're looking at Hillary Clinton. Honestly, I know Hillary. It's just going to be an extension of Obama. I think maybe worse. She's got no strength. She's got no stamina. Remember that. You don't need a president with no strength or stamina when we're being ripped off on trade, we're being ripped off on Obamacare, which is going to be repealed and replaced by something really good. When our soldiers aren't being taken care of, when our military is never been like it is today. One of the generals was on television, as usual, saying that we're the least prepared now than anytime that he's ever seen it and he's been there a long time retiring. That's how we are. In the most dangerous world we've ever had because of the power of weapons, we have people that don't know, they don't, I'm telling you. I watch them. I watch these generals being interviewed. Do you think Gen. George Patton would be interviewed? , They'd be interviewed after total and complete victory. Gen. Douglas MacArthur. They're not big for interviews. You know, they shoot first, they talk later. These guys, and I don't think we'll have to. You know, just so you understand, Bush, Bush, he said yesterday he was being interviewed, he said that he was talking about me. He was saying the nicest things about me. Of course, he says he'll be elected. He's at what 3 percent? Right? No, but he said some things and I was like, I said Who says that about an opponent? You don't say those things. You'll find out what he said. But he said very nice things. But, if you look at what happens where he is upset with me because he says the tone, the tone, of Donald Trump is not nice. And I say it all the time. We have people whose heads are being chopped off in the Middle East because they're Christian and for other reasons. They're being dumped and drowned in steel cages. And we talk about my tone. Hillary said the same thing. Mr. Trump's tone is not nice. These people are living in a different planet. Different planet. And remember what I said about Hillary. We need somebody who's strong. We need somebody with incredible energy but incredible intelligence and all of those things. You know, I know a lot of tough people but they're not smart. That's no good. They're easy. We need tough. We need smart. We need like every character. We are so far behind the eight ball in this country. We owe $19 trillion. The budget they signed two weeks ago is going to make it $21 trillion. It's a, think of it. Trillion. Trillion. Trillion dollars. Who the hell ever heard of the word 10 years ago? There was no such word. We owe $21 trillion in the very near future. We're really in trouble. We have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to rebuild our military. And yet, we do deals with China where there's a trade imbalance of over $400 billion a year in their favor, by the way, in case you had any question. Japan, they send their cars by the millions. $70 billion a year imbalance. That's like a loss. You look at Mexico. We're going to build a wall. It will be a real wall. It will be a real wall. Gonna happen. It's gonna happen. The people I'm dealing with, and you know, I really focus on Hillary later because I have to get through these 15 people. You know, there's 15 of us. I had Perry came at me strong; he went down. I had Gov. Walker, nice guy, he went down. Every guy that attacks me so far they've all gone down. We've got to keep it that way, right? I mean, Lindsey Graham. He's at zero. He's at zero. Zero. Let me ask you a question. I don't get Lindsey Graham. I don't get him, He's literally at zero. You see him. And he keeps talking. He gets so much television. I mean, he's on television all the time and he doesn't go up. He's at zero, folks. His ideas are so bad. I'm more militaristic than him. But I know how to win; he doesn't. He just wants to attack everything. He doesn't know where the hell, ha ha. And he always sits with John McCain. It's like they're the Bobbsey twins. They're always sitting together. No, it's true. Do you ever notice? Sometimes I want to see him by himself. He's always sitting with John McCain, who's fine. I'm not knocking it. But you got to know what to do. Now me, I was against the war in Iraq. So everyone says, you have the right temperament, I have a great temperament. But you've got to attack. If you've got to do something, you've got to know what you're doing. I said if you attack Iraq and you wipe it out, Iran is going to take over the entire Middle East because you're going to ruin the balance. It was so simple to me. And actually they sent a group from the White House to see me because I got so much publicity, so much publicity that they sent a group from the White House to see Mr. Trump. I said, Fellas, you're going to have Iran take over the Middle East and that's what's happening. And Iran's going to take over Iraq as sure as you're sitting there. And by the way, Iraq, with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world. We lost of thousands of lives. We have wounded warriors all over the place. $2 trillion. We have nothing. We got nothing. We have absolutely nothing. And we left. And we have a president, we shouldn't have been there but then we shouldn't have left the way we left. You know, the funny thing is I look at Democrats and liberals and conservatives and Republicans, wouldn't it be good all of us if we can get together and really make our country great again? Is that what we want to do? I'll bet you that if I spoke to that young woman, that quickly I really think I can convince her that we're all in this together, folks. We want to have a strong country. Right? But you know, if you think about it and you'll have some that can never be satisfied no matter what. They're just troublemakers, et cetera, et cetera. But most people aren't and they believe something. And I have some very smart friends don't agree with me; they agree with the other side. But I really believe that if you took it about making America great, we have to be strong, we have to be vigilant, and if we're not vigilant, that was the same person. I've got to tell you, so far, the security is not doing a great job in here, I'll tell you that. That was the same person. You can do very nice but why don't you get her out because honestly it's inappropriate. So security, strengthen yourself up. See, our country has this kind of security. That's the problem we have, Treat her very nicely please but she should now be taken out. Same person. One person. It's one person. They let her out. They gave her a second chance and the same thing happens. But you would think that everybody we're all on the same basket that everybody every single person, So you would think that if we could get together, we'd all be in the same boat. Now, last night we all saw and we witnessed something that I thought was highly inappropriate. In fact, I tweeted Is that all there is? about the president's speech and I wrote something today that I think is very, very salient, very important, and probably not politically correct but I don't care. I don't care. You know, we had a situation in California very recently where somebody was making bombs in an apartment. The mother saw them. The mother didn't notice anything wrong. I watched the sister being interviewed. Believe me, in my opinion, she was lying like crazy. I watched that interview. Oh, my brother was such a wonderful guy. I didn't know, I didn't know, I didn't know. And I watched the next door neighbor saying, Oh, well we didn't report them because we didn't want to racially profile or we didn't want to profile. Give me a break. Give me a break. We're like the stupid country in so many different ways. It's so, can you imagine what our great leaders of the past would have said with the kind of crap that's happening with us? They didn't want to report them because they thought it was profiling. Okay, they saw bombs. They saw, you know, the pipe bombs only this wasn't to build a bathroom. When a bomb is this long, can't put too many of them together for a bathroom, right? And we thought they maybe but we didn't want to racially profile. Oh, okay, you're okay, you're innocent. Or how about where the families and the girlfriends and the wives and everything and they go back to World Trade Center, the worst, worse than Pearl Harbor because with the World Trade Center they were killing innocent civilians. At least while it was a dirty, rotten sneak attack, at least they were, but while it was an attack, at least it was military. But this was an attack on the World Trade Center. So, what's happened is we're out of control. We have no idea who's coming into our country. We have no idea if they love us or if they hate us. We have no idea if they want to bomb us. We have no idea what's going on. And then I looked at poll numbers and I don't mean polls where I'm winning; those numbers I like looking at. These numbers I hated to look at. And it's very, very sad. I'll go after some of the numbers. 25 percent of those polled and this was from the Center for Security Policy, very highly respected group of people who I know actually. This is people living in this country. 25 percent of those polled agreed that violence against Americans is justified as Muslims. 25 percent. 51 percent of the Muslims living in this country, by the way, I have friends that are Muslims; they're great people. But they know we have a problem. They know we have a real problem. Because something's going on, and we can't put up with it, folks. We can't put up with it. 51 percent, 51 percent highly respected number of polling groups want to be governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is. So I wrote this out. The mainstream media wants to surrender the Constitution. The mainstream media, these people back here. They're the worst. They are so dishonest. No, no, they're so dishonest. They are so dishonest. I mean, I have one from NBC, a reporter from NBC, and actually another one from CBS, they actually in Columbus, Ohio, I had a tremendous crowd like 10000 people. It was a love fest. It went on for a long time. Everybody stayed right until the end. I had one of the politicians, Kasich, who is just getting, he's a horrible debater, He made a statement that Oh, they left after 10 minutes. Now, the press was there. They saw it. Nobody said it was a lie. It was a total lie. In fact, I had more people at the end than I had at the beginning. Nobody's leaving. Nobody's leaving here except for the one person that was screaming. So, we asked the press to report that it was a total lie and they didn't want to do that because it's not their thing to do. You know, we get the biggest crowds. They don't want to show this crowd tonight. They're not going to show all the people outside trying to get in. They don't do that. They have the cameras right in my face. I say fan the crowd just to show, look at all the people over here. It's a record in the history of this ship. But they don't show it. They don't show it. No, no. And I say fan it and they never ever fan it. I say fan the crowd and they never fan it. And yet, I guarantee you that that young woman that just got taken out after interrupting us three times, I guarantee the cameras will be on her. I guarantee. It's disgusting. Disgusting. , And by the way, some of the media's terrific but most of it 70 percent, 75 percent is absolute dishonest, absolute scum. Remember that. Scum. Scum. They're totally dishonest people. I had one the other day where I finished the speech and they said Oh, Trump was interrupted and he left early. I spoke for like 45, 50 minutes. I then answered questions and then I went around, you know, everybody knew it was false. Amazingly, there's a media group that calls the media and the next day they did the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from NBC. She's back there. Little Katie. She's back there. What a lie it was. No, what a lie, Katie Tur, what a lie it was from NBC to have written that. It was a total lie. And they did a story where they, I didn't know they had a group like this where they actually criticized the media. And they said it was a total lie. And I loved it. I loved it. I loved it. And then other people pick it up. You know it's NBC so somebody picks it up. Third rate reporter. Remember that. Third rate. Third rate. So I said here the mainstream media wants to surrender our Constitution and our constitutional rights. And I don't want that. I want ISIS to surrender. Okay? I want ISIS to surrender. Very simple. It's very simple. So here's what happened. It's been a little controversial. It's been a great day because the poll numbers are through the roof. I like that. But I have more, I wish we could call, is there any way we could call the election tomorrow? Wouldn't you love that? Now they're coming at us in full force. They're coming, not coming at me. They're coming at all of us. They're coming at all of us. Because you know, we have a noisy majority. They used to call it the quiet majority. People are fed up. They're fed up with incompetence. They're fed up with stupid leaders. They're fed up with stupid people. They are fed up with stupid people, where our president makes a deal for Sergeant Bergdahl, a dirty, rotten, no good traitor who, think of it. They knew he was a traitor because a general and a colonel went to see his group. Six people were killed looking for him. Okay? Six people were killed. Young. Unbelievable. I watched the parents on television. I've seen the parents. But I watched the parents on television devastated, will never be the same. They left to try to bring them back. He left. He deserted. You know, in the old days when we were strong country it would be boom, gone. It was called desertion. Now I heard the other day they won't even do anything to him. Can you believe it? They think he's going to get away with nothing. He's going to have nothing. So he left. Oh, they treated him pretty rough though. He got in there, he said, I shouldn't have done this. This isn't working out the way I thought. Anyways, so we get him back and here's the deal we made. We get a dirty, no good traitor. Six people killed, They get five of their greatest killers that they've been after, after, think of it for six years. In fact, I hear nine years. So they get these, right now have gone, they're out in the battlefield, trying to kill everybody in front of them including you folks, I'd hate to tell you. So we get Bergdahl and they get five of the killers that they've wanted for many years. That's the way we do it. The Iran deal. We gave them $150 billion. It's called amateur night. We gave them $150 billion. 24 days, 24 days, we think there's something wrong, 24 days we have to wait but it's much longer than that because there's a whole process before the clock starts ticking. So it could be forever. But the best is where they have the right to self inspect. Are you doing nuclear weapons over there? Oh, we'll inspect tomorrow. Oh no, we're not doing nuclear weapons. You know, the Persians are great negotiators. Always have been. And somebody would say that's profiling. Trust me, they're great negotiators. And Kerry is a horrible negotiator and Obama is a horrible negotiator. Horrible. He's a horrible negotiator. These people are horrible. I always Obama would be a unifier. I never thought of him as being like a divider because I said You know what? I don't think he's going to be a good president. I backed McCain; he lost by the way. And you know, I don't blame McCain for losing because a lot of bad things will happen; it was a tough one. But I backed McCain; he lost. I backed Romney; he should have won but he sort of went away on vacation or something the last month and he lost. And I said, This time I'm going to do it myself. We're not going to lose. We're not going to lose. We're not losing. And the recent Fox poll that just came out has me beating Hillary very easily one on one. I love that. That's so important. So, we put out a statement today. We watched this. And it's impossible to watch this gross incompetence but I watched last night. And we put out a statement a little while ago and these people are going crazy, Shall I read you the statement? Donald J. Trump is calling for, now, you've got to listen to this because this is pretty heavy stuff and it's common sense and we have to do it. Remember the poll numbers. 25 percent, 51 percent. Remember the poll numbers. So remember this. So listen. Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what the hell is going on. We have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice. According to Pew Research, among others, there is a great hatred toward Americans by large segments of the Muslim population. Most recently, a poll from Center for Security Policy released data showing 25 percent of those polled agreed that violence against Americans, these are people that are here by the way, people that are here, 25 percent not 1 percent. By the way, 1 percent would be unacceptable. 1 percent is unacceptable. 25 percent of those polled agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as part, think of that, as part of the global jihad. They want to change your religion. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. Not going to happen. As part of the global jihad. And 51 percent of those polled agreed that Muslims in America should have the choice of being governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is. 51 percent. Sharia authorizes, now look, this is, I mean, it's terrible. Sharia authorizes such atrocities as murders against non believers who won't convert, beheadings, and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to Americans especially women. I mean, you look, especially women. Tough stuff. And we have a president that won't even mention the term and you're talking about numbers like this. Mr. Trump stated without looking at the various polling data, it's obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension, Where the hatred comes from and why, we'll have to determine. We'll have to figure it out. We have to figure it out. We can't live like this. It's going to get worse and worse. You're going to have more World Trade Centers. It's going to get worse and worse folks. We could be politically correct and we can be stupid but it's going to get worse and worse. Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victim of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad. These are people only believe in jihad. They don't want our system. They don't want our system and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. They have no respect for human life. So they have no respect for human life. So we have to do something. Now, we can be weak. We can be ineffective. We can be foolish. So prior to Paris, which was a disaster, which by the way if some of the people in those places where it was slaughter, absolute slaughter, had guns, you wouldn't have had the carnage that you had in Paris. You wouldn't had that carnage. If they had guns, you wouldn't had that carnage. So important the Second Amendment. We have to preserve it and cherish it. And we can't let these weak leaders diminish it. If they had guns in Paris, if five people in that room, Paris and France has probably the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world and it was like target practice. Come over here. Boom! Come over here. Boom! People are sitting by the hundreds and many others are going to be dying. They're sitting in the hospital in many cases waiting to die. Now, the same thing a few days ago in California. No guns. We didn't have guns. The bad guys had the guns. And these young people, and I tell the press you've got to stop calling them masterminds, these are dirty, rotten scums. These aren't masterminds. Remember the guy in Paris with the big dirty hat? Remember the guy in Paris, the mastermind. I was watching all the networks. I won't mention who but some of them disgusted me. The mastermind is on the loose. And we have kids that are watching the Internet and they want to be masterminds and then you wonder why do we lose all these kids, they go over there. They're young. They're impressionable. They go over there and they want to join ISIS. And we have our anchors, I think I got them mostly stopped. Did you notice that? I don't hear it too much. But they say the young mastermind. Oh, he's brilliant. Young man, he's brilliant. I don't even he's got a high IQ, In Paris, I call him the guy with the dirty filthy hat. Okay? Not a smart guy. A dummy. Puts people in there, mastermind, bing, bing, bing, it's like shooting everybody. You've got to be a mastermind. So the press has to be responsible. They're not being responsible because we're losing a lot of people because of the Internet. And we have to do something. We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different people that really understand what's happening. We have to talk to them. Maybe in certain areas closing that Internet up in some way. Somebody will Oh, freedom of speech, freedom of speech. These are foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people. We've got to maybe do something with the Internet because they are recruiting by the thousands. They're leaving our country. And then when they come back, we take them back. Oh, come on back. Where were you? I was fighting for ISIS. Oh, come on back. Go home. Enjoy yourself. When they leave our country and they go to fight for ISIS or any of the other groups, they never come back. They never can come back. They never can come back. They can never, ever, ever come back. It's over. How about that? And now that they've become radicalized, they're totally radicalized. And how about the woman? She was in Pakistan then Saudi Arabia. She comes in on an engagement deal and she radicalized the guy. Probably a guy who couldn't get women. I don't know what the hell his problem is. It's probably the first women he's ever had. I don't know what was going on. But he became radicalized quickly. Notice how easy it is? He becomes radicalized and then they go on a spree. Folks, those days are over. Those days are over. We have to be tough. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. Yes, we have to look at mosques and we have to respect mosques. But yes, we have to look at mosques. We have no choice. We have to see what's happening because something is happening in there. Man, there's anger. There's anger. And we have to know about it. We can't be these people that are sitting back like in the World Trade Center, like so many different things. We can't be people that knew what was going on two weeks ago in California, probably for months they knew what was going on and they didn't want to tell anybody. We can't be that. We have to be strong. When we see violations, you have to report those violations and quickly. Don't worry about profiling. I promise I will defend you from profiling. I promise. So when I started this whole quest, I mean, who knew it was going to turn into this? It's been an amazing thing. No matter where I go, I have tremendous crowds, packed crowds, packed. We went to Dallas, 20000 people in Dallas. 25000 people. Mobile, Alabama, 35000 people. Here, every time I come to South Carolina, every time I go to North Carolina, every time I go to Iowa, New Hampshire, Virginia, wherever I go, Florida, we have crowds that are maxed. The only problem we have is the size of the room, thousands of people outside trying to get in. Usually I do a double. I go talk to them for a while, which I wouldn't say I exactly love doing after the first one. But there is an unbelievable love in these rooms, all the same. I love you too. I love you, Thank you. Thank you. I love you too. There's an unbelievable love in all of these places, Oklahoma, 20000 people standing in a park on quick notice. There's an unbelievable love. And there's an unbelievable love of the country. We want to see good things. We don't want to be bad people. We don't want to be tough and nasty. We believe in the Constitution more than anybody. But we can't let people use and abuse our rights. We can't let people kill us. They want to kill us. They want to destroy us. We can't let it happen. We just can't let it happen. And I have a friend who's a very, very successful man, and I went to one event, he came with me. We had 24000 people. And this guy's a real tough cookie. He's a great financial guy. One of the guys I'd definitely use to negotiate with Japan, China. Believe me, you're going to be in good shape when that happens. We won't have these characters. You know, this whole thing with all of these guys. By the way, I'm the only one that's self funding my campaign. Everyone else is controlled. Only one. I'm the only one. Only one. I'm self funding my campaign. And these other guys. You know, they're getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know. I have one guy came and wanted to give me a lot of money. I said, Honestly, I can't take it. I don't want to do. I can't take it, which is very sort of like for me to not take money, my whole life I've been taking money. Now I'm sort of like what am I doing? But came in and I said, So what are you going to do? I don't want your money. And he said, I got to go someplace else. They're like gamblers. They're like gamblers. But I said, You like me best. I like you best but I'm going to go someplace else. Because they want to be part, they want to, , Let me tell you, who is more than me? I gave millions to these guys. Nobody knows the system better than me. I knew it from the other side. Don't forget, I was the fair haired boy. I was like the establishment. They'd all come to me, and I'd give them all money I write checks sometimes to Senators whatever the max, bing, bing, bing. I used to say Senators, don't come to my office. Anybody that's a US Senator that calls me, we'll send you a campaign contribution. But you know what? I'll tell you something. In the end, the people that gives these millions of dollars to these horrible, corrupt PACS, they're corrupt, they totally control Bush and Rubio and I won't say Cruz because he's been very nice to me. Nah, he's been nice. He's got to hit me first. Once he hits me, I promise you. I promise you. No, I've been nice to Christie but he really hit me today. Chris Christie. I mean, I don't know. He's a friend of mine but he's not doing well in the polls and he really, really hit me today. He hated this and yet he said anybody could come. You've got to look at some of the statements from the past. But he really hit me on the whole thing that we have to stop the Muslims until we find out what's going on. Does that make sense by the way? Until we find out. And he talked about, that's inexperience and you know in other words he has experience right? But that's the statement of an inexperienced man, About we have to stop people that want to kill us from coming in. Does that sound like inexperienced? So Chris, who's a friend of mine, he hit me hard. And I said I got to hit him at least once. So I won't do this a lot. Look, here's the story. The George Washington Bridge. He knew about it. Hey, how do you have breakfast with people everyday of your lives, they're closing up the largest bridge in the world, the biggest in the United States, traffic flowing during rush hour. People couldn't get across for 6, 7 hours. Ambulances, fire trucks. They're with him all the time, the people that did it. They never said, Hey boss, we're closing up the George Washington Bridge tonight. No, they never said that. They're talking about the weather, right? He knew about it. He knew about it. Totally knew about it. He's a got a very friendly group of people over there that they don't think so. But I don't know. It's called life. You've got to be smart in life. I would say there's less than 1 percent chance. It could be but I doubt it. He knew about it. They didn't mention at one of their meetings? I think they had breakfast like everyday or every other day. They'd just say, Chris, tonight we're closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor a certain area is against you. Oh, okay. They didn't mention? Nobody believes that. Number two. Nine downgrades of the state. Nine downgrades. It's a disaster. I have property over there, the taxes are through, I'll use an expression, coming out of my ears, okay? Tremendous taxes over there. You had nine downgrades. You had Christie, you know, so friendly with President Obama during the flood. I actually called. I said, Let me ask you. Is he going to vote for Obama? I thought he was going to vote for Obama. I don't know. I think he possibly did. And Romney I was very disappointed. One of the reasons I was disappointed was he called Christie and had dinner right after the election. If Christie did that to me, I would have never spoken to him again. I would have never done it. So when Chris talks about, when he talks about lack of experience, I built this incredible company. I filed papers where everyone said Wow, that is unbelievable. I would have probably filed them even when I didn't run because I built a great, great company. Tremendous cash. Tremendous assets. Tremendous net worth. Very little debt. Unbelievable cash flow. And I filed. Everybody said Number one, he won't run. And I ran. I took a deep breath and I said, Let's go to my wife and we came down that escalator. Right, the famous escalators. Hopefully in many years that will be a very famous scene because we will have turned around our country and that will be a positive note, okay? But then they said, Oh, well he announced. So these talking heads, most of whom are not even smart people, believe me. Then they'd say well, they went to Ivy League college. So did I go to Ivy League college. They went to this. Most of them didn't go to Ivy League colleges by the way but they say they're brilliant. One's brilliant because he wears glasses, you know? Like Perry. Remember Perry? We don't like him. But what happens is they say Well, he'll never file form A. That's basically where you sign your life away. I filed form A. Then they said, Well, he'll never sign his financial statement because maybe he's not as rich as everybody thinks. Then they said, And if he does, he'll ask for many, many delays because you're entitled to 45 day delays, delays, and you can delay it until forever. And they'll delay it until after the election. I said, No so I filed it ahead of schedule. And what happened? Remember? They went down. They couldn't believe it. It was much, much, much better than anybody ever envisioned. I built a great company and the reason, honestly worth billions and billions of dollars. Remember that, low debt, great cash flow, and the greatest assets, Doral, Trump Tower, the Trump Building, big chunk of the Bank of America building in San Francisco, 1290 Avenue, land all over, land on the Potomac, land all over. In North Carolina, I have a great piece of property. Trump National Golf Club. Some of you know it. Great, right at the best location. And what happens? What happens? So I filed and everyone said Oh, I can't believe it. Then they said Well, maybe he won't do so well with the polls. And you know, before I went, people never believed I was going to run. They never thought I was going to run. And I told the story the other night for really the first real time. But my wife said to me You know if you run you will win. Don't you? She's very smart. I said, What do you mean? She said, If you don't run, you're never going to poll before. Nobody believes you're going to run. So if they do polls like they did these early polls, they weren't great before I announced. She said, No, the only way you're going to get a poll number is you've got to announce. Nobody believes even though they say, even though they say you're running, it doesn't matter. Nobody believes you're running. So I said, All right. I'm getting these lousy early numbers and I'm saying, I don't know. I don't want to run and find out it doesn't work. I don't want to be embarrassed like Lindsey Graham and all these guys who have nothing. It's true. It's true. So I said, All right. Let's take it. So we go down on the escalator. You know what I did? You remember I took a deep breath because I'm telling you and you know what I'm talking about the press down there look like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras. I have never seen anything like it. The entire atrium of Trump Tower was packed with cameras and press. And I just said, Let's go to my wife. Thank you very much, everybody. You just like me because my daughter happens to be Jewish. Right? She has a great husband, Jared, and I'll tell you what Ivanka could not be happier and she's very proud. The only bad news, I can't get her on Saturday. I call and I call. I can't speak to my daughter anymore on Saturdays. But that's okay. It's an honor to be with you. You know, I've devoted so much time over my life to Israel, and the other politicians they can talk but believe me they haven't done what I've done. I've received many, many awards. I was the Grand Marshal of the Israeli Day Parade at a very dangerous time when people said, Don't do it. Don't do it. I walked up Fifth Avenue. I'm looking up for lots of trouble. But I said, No way am I not going to do it. And it was a rough time as you know. It was 2004, and it was a tremendously successful parade. Maybe their most successful parade that they ever had. So, I'm in a different position than the other candidates because I'm the one candidate I don't want any of your money; I want your support but I don't want your money. I'm self funding my campaign. It's been an amazing experience for me because I have very little money invested so far. I thought by this time I'd have about 30 million in ads and I have none although I took a small radio commercial the other day in Iowa. But we have virtually no money in invested in ads or advertising. And I think you as business people will feel pretty good about this and respect it. At first, I was embarassed by that. I said, You know, I think we're going to have spend money just to spend money but it's not really like a good thing to do because I am in first place by a lot. It's not even close. Every single poll, every single state. The numbers just came in three minutes ago in New Hampshire, the PPP poll, Trump at 27%, the next one is 13%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 5%, and the rest are off the board. They have to drop out pretty soon I guess, right? Most of importantly, favorability, no, I still like the top number the most but favorability is now at 50% to 39%, which is good, and I beat Hillary in the Fox poll as you see very easily 46% to 41%. That's ultimately the most important. And you know, I've been a tremendous fan and I've been a tremendous contributor. I've given a lot of money recently to Hatzalah, $100000, emergency response. They do a fantastic job. And my father, Fred, was always a big supporter. So I grew up in that environment. I grew up in Brooklyn, Queens, and Israel was always very paramount in our mind. In fact, I've been sometimes criticized because I received so many awards from Jewish groups, and they look at my wall. It's loaded up. But now the Christians are catching up, I have to tell you. My Christians are liking me a lot lately and they've been great. They have been great. So, Obama is the worst thing that's ever happened to Israel. The worst. The worst. And when I see great friends of mine who are very, very pro Israel, very, I mean, they love Israel. They love it with passion, and they're having fundraisers for Obama. I said, What are you doing? And it's almost like they answer me and they say, We don't know. He comes to New York. We don't know. We don't know. I said he's a disaster. I really believe the Iran deal. Look, I'm a negotiator like you folks. We're negotiators. We don't build gas stations in the middle of, as you know, Afghanistan for $43 million, can you imagine this? A small gas station,$43 million, and then they used the wrong kind of terminal because they don't sell that type of gas. Okay? $43 million for a gas station. How many think they could have done it for less? Would you raise your hands please? But I look at Obama, I look at that deal where we gave to Iran $150 billion. They don't need to develop nuclear weapons; they can buy them. They can buy them. It's true. Why do they have to develop them? They can buy them. We gave them $150 billion. They go out and in terms of, you know, surveillance, they have the right to self inspect. How about that? On their major, most dangerous they can self inspect. We're going to let them self inspect. And then you have of course the 24 days and the 24 days we're all good with contracts don't start until such and such happens. It could be forever before you ever go into inspect. And we don't even get our prisoners back. And now they want to start a negotiation to get the prisoners back and they want 19 people for our three. They don't want to give us our four. You know we have four. But they only want to talk three. Now, that should have been negotiated right at the beginning, three years ago. And maybe better than any audience, I mean, the people in this room understand what I'm saying. It should have been you walk in, by the way, did you ever see a negotiation take so long? And we conceded on every single. We didn't win anything. We didn't win anything. But that should have been with our prisoners, day one, whatever it is years ago, we have to get our prisoners back. You don't want them. We need them. It will make us look better. Both everybody is going to like us more. With the American public, any deal that we strike, it's going to look good. And you say that. We have to get our prisoners back. Day one. They're going to say, No, we're not giving. And we're going to say, Bye bye. Bye! Call us when you're ready. And then we go out and double up and triple up the sanctions. I guarantee you within 48 hours they're calling, begging us to come back to the table and you have your prisoners back. It's so easy. Now, the president, you saw that, and John Kerry, who is probably the worst negotiator I've ever seen. No, he's the worst negotiator I've ever seen. He did not read The Art of the Deal, folks, I can tell you that. Now, he's one of the few. He's one of the, biggest selling of all time business book of all time, he didn't read it. And Obama definitely didn't read it. Obama, ayeyeye. Oh. But they said, this is hard to believe but this is what they said, a lot of press back there so I have to say everything exactly correct because if I don't I end up with a, they said we didn't want to complicate the negotiations by asking for the prisoners. It's really complicated. We want our prisoners back. Oh, so complicated. They said they didn't want to complicate, so now, we're going to end up making a new deal probably at some point. I'd tell you this, look I'll just tell you this: If I win, before I take office, I guarantee you those prisoners are going to be back. They're going to be back, I guarantee you. They're going to be back. Now, our president doesn't want to use the term, we had another event, which probably was, the one yesterday, probably was related. It always happens but it probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not. But it turns out probably was related, radical Islamic terrorism. And I'll tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say. There's something going on with him that we don't know about. Now, as far as Hillary's concerned, she's going to go with what he wants. She shouldn't be allowed to run. What she did is criminal with the emails. She shouldn't be allowed to run. She's going to have to follow his line because she's on a thread. You know, look, in real life, his Attorney General, his US Attorney, his Attorney General. So his Attorney General is going to listen to him in my opinion. I think it's very dishonest what's going on with our government. General David Petraeus was given a life changing sentence. Other people have been sent to jail. Petraeus was, you know, essentially, look, I don't want to get into it with the poor guy. What he went, for nothing, compared to what she did for nothing, for 5% of what she did. And Obama, I mean, she can't go against him because only does boom she gets indicted. That's the end of it. That's the end of it. So when you see Hillary backing up virtually everything he says, and he's got control of her. I mean, it's just total control. But I'll tell you what, she shouldn't be allowed to run. What she did was a criminal act. And remember this, this is a six year, you have a six year statute of limitations. So she's fighting for her life. If she doesn't become president, she could have a real problem. Does that make any sense to anybody? Does that make sense to anybody? Because what she did was just wrong. Okay? And you know she's been involved in corruption her whole life, whether it's Whitewater. I mean, her whole life is corruption. She was a horrible Secretary of State. She did a horrible job other than traveled a lot. She traveled a lot, nothing ever got done. The whole, the world blew up around her. It blew up. 500 to 600 calls and emails and everything from our ambassador asking for help and she didn't respond. The truth is she doesn't have the strength or the energy. She responded to her friends. You know the friends we're talking about. Some of those friends are, you know, sort of an interesting friend going on there. But she responded, yeah, you get that, right? A lot of people don't get that. But she responded to a friend, but she doesn't respond to an ambassador that's asking for help. Hundreds, hundreds of requests and she doesn't respond. Now, remember this, I go every night to someplace. I mean, yesterday I was in Manassas, Virginia, we had an unbelievable crowd. The other day I was in Florida, we had 12000 people in Sarasota at 12 pm with the football games going on. 12000 people. The convention center held 5000. So we had thousands outside. I made a speech outside. I made two speeches. I said, You can't get me a larger convention center so I can do one speech? My people said, No, this is the biggest one. We set a record, a big record. We set a record everywhere. We beat the record of Elton John. It's true. Elton John. I'm no longer competing with politicians. I'm competing with the musical talent. One of the great musicians said You get the largest crowds of any single human being on Earth without a guitar meaning who doesn't count on music. So it's true, we've had tremendous response. We've had incredible response. I think you know if you look at what's going on and I think based on the response, based on the polls, again I don't want your money therefore you're probably not going to support me because stupidly you want to give money. Trump doesn't want money therefore we can't, even though he's better than all these guys, even though he's going to do more for Israel than anybody else, even though Bibi Netanyahu asked me to do a commercial for him and I did and he won his race, so I was very happy about that. But he asked me to do a commercial. And they said I was the only celebrity. I don't know if that's, but they said I'm the only celebrity. I don't know. I'm not a celebrity. See now I'm a politician. I'm so embarrassed by that term. You know, my how life I've been a business, I've been a developer. I've employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. I have unbelievable statements and unbelievable company. A lot of people said, Oh, he'll never file. This you'll get a kick out of. He'll never run because he'll never want to file various papers. And then he'll never file this and that and then you'd have to sign your life away. The first paper, we all know about first papers. You sign your life away. That's the end of it. He did it. Then they said, Well, he'll never sign and he'll never file his financials because who knows, maybe he's not as rich as people think. So I filed my financials, almost 100 pages. The biggest ever filed by the federal elections. And everybody said, Oh my, it's much bigger and much stronger and holy mackeral, look at these numbers! If I didn't run, I'd probably would have filed anyways because you know I built a great company and I like to brag about it whenever possible. It's true. Some of the greatest assets, Doral, you know, Doral and Turnberry in Scotland and Trump Tower and many buildings in Manhattan. Just many, Bank of America building in San Francisco with a great partner and so many other buildings and things And the reason I bring that up is because that's the kind of thinking we need. And I don't bring it up as braggadocio. I bring it up because that's the kind of thinking we need in this country to bring us back. We have people that don't know the first thing about the word negotiation. I can take anybody in this office, believe me, and they're better than Obama and they're better than Kerry and they're better than the foolish people, the foolish people. It's so embarrassing when you see what happens. Sergeant Bergdahl, all right? Sergeant Bergdahl, we get a traitor; they get five of the greatest killers that they've wanted for nine years. You know, the deal was five for one. And they knew he was a traitor before we made the deal. You know about Sergeant Bergdahl. He deserted. Six people were killed trying to get him back. They were looking for him. The general and the colonel went to see all those people, they said, No, he deserted. He was a traitor. And we still made the deal. So we get a traitor. We can give him back. Do you want to renegotiate deals? Some of us will renegotiate deals. I would say about 99,is there anybody that doesn't renegotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates so I want to renegotiate, perhaps more than any room than I've ever spoken. Maybe more. It's okay. I've been called on that a couple of times too. But the fact is I want to renegotiate that deal. I want to drop him right smack in the middle of where he came from. The hell, they can have him even if we don't get the five guys back because that's not going to happen because you know where they are right now? They're right now all in the battlefield fighting us and trying to kill us and kill anybody that gets in. So they get their five guys that they've wanted for nine years they've wanted them and we get a dirty rotten traitor. But that's the way our people negotiate. They're stupid people. Okay? They're stupid people. It's very sad. It's very sad. So I'll just tell you that I'm going to win. I am. I'm going to win. I mean, unless something happens, you know, walk across the street, the wrong thing happens. But I'll tell you what, I have a great secret service. Here's a nice one, you're number one, they give you a secret service. I never saw so many people, talented people, great people. But I believe I'm going to win. I really have just a great feeling about it. And you know, my life has been about winning. I've won, and my life has been about winning, and that's what I want to do for the country. And if people say about my company and deals and you can do this deal or that deal, I have no interest. It's like the other day, Ivanka, she's doing so great. Dad, we can buy this wonderful office building and I said, Honey, who cares? How can you talk to me about such trivial things, Ivanka? It's amazing. See? Now I'm dealing in trillions. I've never heard of trillions before. You know, with this, we owe $19 trillion. We just signed a budget that's so bad and the Republicans, you know, we know where the Democrats are coming from. But these Republican politicians, they go to Washington and they're going to end Obamacare, which I'm going to do by the way, I'm ending, I'm terminating, it's going to be repealed and replaced with something much better. But they go to Washington and they're going to do this and they're going to do budgets, like I heard the guy before We're going to work in the budget. It's all about that. What happens is they're going to do budgets like we're going to do this and that and I tell this story, then they walk into the Capitol Building, which is magnificent, and they look up Darling, oh my, look at those columns, look at the ceiling, look at the angels. Oh, look at these magnificent floors. They've never seen anything like it. We've arrived. This is incredible. And then they become mainstream. We'll vote on Obamacare. Yes, I vote. They don't want to leave. They lose all of their courage. I want to use a nice word because otherwise they'd get reported for foul language. They lose all of their courage and they've let us down. That won't happen with me. So, again, you're not going to support me even though you know I'm the best thing that could ever happen to Israel and I'll be that. I know why you're not going to support me and you know you're not going to support me because I don't want your money. Isn't it crazy? No, it's true. You know, if I wanted to have your money, I think I'd have a damn good chance and I think I'd get more money than anybody else. Do you know the money I have turned down? This has not been my life turning down money. Guys want to give me millions. I would have made, poor Jeb Bush, I mean, this poor guy with his low energy. It's sad. No, it's sad. I came up with that term, it became so defining. It's like having it on his forehead I am low energy. No, no, it's sad. He raised $125 million, which means he's controlled totally, totally controlled by the people that gave him the money. That's why you don't want to give me money, okay? But that's okay. You want to control your own politician. That's fine. Good. Fine. Think about that, folks. Don't worry about it. I understand. Hey, five months ago, I was with you. Who's better than me? Who is better than me? I gave $350000 to the Republican Governors Association. I never even gotten a letter of thank you. It's true. $350000. I didn't receive one letter, not one letter from one governor. Stupid. The good thing is I don't give any, why would I give any more? You don't get a thank you letter. Politicians, remember this, politicians forget, politicians generally aren't competent, and the one thing they are good at is getting elected and that's what you're going to end up having. But I would love your support but I don't want your money. I appreciate it. Now, let's take some questions. Okay? Good. I was telling some of the folks backstage, I never ever thought we'd do this well this fast. This has been so incredible. What's happened all over. What's happened in Iowa. It's been really incredible. We've had some amazing results and they continue to come in. Got a little shake up in Iowa. I don't know what's going on. Somebody said Are you going straight to New Hampshire? Now, I love New Hampshire. We've got great numbers. 38 to 12. That's good. But we fell a little behind in Iowa, and some people are saying how can it be. And I come out and I was just telling a group we have the biggest crowds, we have the most enthusiastic crowds. Everybody said and it's very true. I mean, look at this. Somebody else would come, they'd have like 50 people and they wouldn't need this room. Believe me. But everybody said without question in every poll, this isn't just here, that the people that are with Trump are with Trump. They don't go anywhere. They're staying. It's true. I see it. I see it. And we've seen it. You know, a couple of times I say Well, that could be the end. Then they do something and I'm 10 points up. It's the craziest thing, right? But we'll take it. But they say the people are with, we have the most loyal people by far. Everybody says it. The other thing they say is for leadership, number one. Very important, right? Don't you think? Leadership. I mean, when leadership is number one, they say on the economy without question number one and by a lot. So you know it's great. I thought I'd talk a little bit and I want to take some questions. You know, we can do a little question and answer. Right? We have all these cameras going back here. And you know, it's always tough when you're on live television all the time. Look, we have 10 topics. Right? How many topics? 10? How many different ways can you talk about the 10 topics? The bottom line is we want results. We want to get it done. But when you're on live television all the time all those people back there and the cameras are on and then you're talking about immigration and you're talking about the wall because we're going to have a wall and we're going to stop illegal immigration. But we talk about trade and we talk about repealing Obamacare. And we talk about all the things that we talk about. But you know, you have these points and we could talk about them in different forms, in different ways and give different examples. But in the end, it's really about results. Isn't it? It's really about results. And you can only talk about the same subjects on live television so many different ways. I talk about industry. I talk about commerce. I talk about how we're losing our jobs to all of these different countries. And I give different examples. But it's still going to be a certain number of subjects. I talk about Second Amendment. I talk about Fourteenth Amendment. We talk about amendments. You know, that Second Amendment, they want to take it away from you. They really want to do things and it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. At least with me it's not going to happen. That I can tell you. So I said today you know we'll talk for a little while but I want to do some questions and answers. I want you people to excite me for a change. Is that okay? I want to be excited. And so we're going to have some fun. We're going to do that. A few things, I want to bring up a few new subjects. So, immigration, we're going to be doing a very strong number. It's killing us. It's killing us. And it's bad for the economy. It's bad for, all of this illegal immigration. And I have to tell you legal, you come in and we're going to have a good time and you're going to be there and you're going to do great, and visas, maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and we'll do something, we're not going to hurt our economy in any way, shape or form. We're going to make our economy much, much stronger. But we're also going to get jobs for people that are here. People with us. We're going to get jobs. We're going to get jobs. But the illegal immigration, you know, I did this and I made my determination, I took a deep breath. Because I'll tell you what, it takes courage to say I'm going to run for president. It really does, especially in my case where I have a great business and I love my business. I love doing it. I may never even see it. I mean, I own some of the great properties in the world. Doral in Miami. I may never see it again Turnberry in Scotland, one of the greatest homes of the British Open and all of that. I may never see it again. All of these incredible places that I have. But more than that, it takes courage because when you do it, you're putting yourself out there beyond anything that anybody's done and it even takes courage for a politician to do it. Now at some point some of these guys have to leave. Don't we agree? It's getting ridiculous. Because like tomorrow night we're having a debate, and I wish we had more time for the debate. Not in terms of three hours because who wants three hours? You know, I could stand up for 20 hours if I had to but who wants to watch that long? Hillary's debate essentially lasted for an hour and a half and I was, oh, it was, you couldn't watch it. You have Hillary against a socialist/communist. And honestly, he's not going to win. Just so you understand, He's not going to win and neither is she Well, she's being totally protected because in theory she shouldn't even be allowed to run. She's being protected. It's a tough game and it's a nasty game but she's being totally protected. But she's going to beat him and you still have one more of these guys. O'Malley. So he'll be out quickly, I guess. I don't know what's he doing. What do they do when they have zero? They have zero. And I wouldn't say it against our folks. But they've treated me, some of the zeroes have treated me so nastily, right? Because they want to start controversy and they want to try pick up some points. And you know what? I'm not going to even mention names. Usually I do. I love doing it. But everybody that's hit me so far has gone down. They've gone down. And they've gone down bigly. And a couple of the ones and zeroes, they're the ones that hit the hardest. I mean, they're like desperate people. But they hit. One of them has a zero with an arrow pointing to the left. That means less than zero. And I don't understand. What does it mean? I assume it's a typo but maybe not. But when you look at the things that are happening with our country, the trade situation with not just China, I talk about China all the time because that's the main abuser, that's the biggest abuser. The numbers are astronomical. Almost $400 billion a year in terms of imbalance. Think of it,$400 billion a year. And they send stuff over here but we can't send stuff over there. They tax us. Big tax. A friend of mine can't get stuff over there. The tax is so big. Big tax. Somebody bought an airplane in China here. Can't get it over there. Spoiled guy. Rich guy. Bought a beautiful plane. Can't get it over there because the tax is so massive that he's now selling in this country because China won't let him have the plane and he has to pay a tax. I won't even tell you what the tax is. It's so astronomical that I don't even believe them myself. So I'm not going to say it because those guys will say Well, he was wrong. All I can tell you is it's a massive tax. Like you don't buy planes here because if you do, you won't be able to get them back in. And here, we accept all of their products. So we have almost a $400 billion trade imbalance with China. We have a $70 billion trade imbalance with Japan. We have a, you know, with all that's going on in the South China Sea and you look where we have a destroyer, a relatively small ship, over there, I don't know if I'd want to be the captain of that ship right now. But they're being sort of mocked and scorned and a lot of bad things can happen. But you know, we have an agreement with Japan and I love Japan. I love China. I love all these people. But their leaders are killing us because they're smarter, sharper, more cunning. The leaders of Mexico are killing us at the border and in trade. They're taking so many of our companies. Even Nabisco, my Oreos, they're taking Nabisco. Right? I'm never eating Oreos. I tell it all the time. They had some Oreos before on the plane and I said I don't want to touch them. Bring them back. I yelled out to bring them back. But I'm not happy. They're leaving Chicago and they're moving their big plant to Mexico. So when you see this happening, we have to stop it. And I'm not going to beat around the bush and Oh, let's talk and let's be nice and let's say, Nobody can do it like I do it. Nobody. Honestly, nobody. We can, I'm not saying I'm perfect because I'm not perfect. Nobody's perfect Now, nobody's perfect. But I'll tell you when it comes to that stuff I'm really, there's nobody better. Carl Icahn endorsed me the other day. He's one of the great traders, one of the great dealmakers. He says Trump, Trump. And he's not somebody that just do it. He wants somebody that knows what they're doing. He understand. You talk about corporate inversions and all of the things that have been going on. Corporate inversions. You know, many of the companies in this country have trillions of dollars cumulatively. They think $2 trillion overseas right now. They can't get it in. And everybody agrees that we should bring it in. The Democrats and the Republicans. They've agreed for years. They can't make a deal because they have no leader. It's not like Oh gee, we disagree on Obamacare. Or we disagree on something else. Although I must tell you many of the Democrats that I speak to because I'm friendly with all of them. I'm friendly with like Republicans. I get a long with everybody. You know, everybody says Oh, you won't be a unifier. I'll be the greatest unifier of all. Why is Obama a unifier? But I will tell you many of the Democrats who voted for Obamacare would never have done it now and were lied to 28 times. Right? You can keep your doctor, keep your plan, keep your this, everything's going to be great. Turned out to be a total lie. 28 different times that they know of and they wouldn't have done it. But when you look at what's happening with corporations and the highest tax, we pay the highest tax anywhere in the world of any country, but they have trillions of dollars overseas. And these are great companies in many cases. They have thousands of employees. They can't get their money back. And the reason is bureaucracy. It's very hard. And also big reason the tax is too high. They don't want to bring $1 million back and pay $300000 or $350000 tax. They'd rather leave it over there. And if they bring it back, they'll be using it to invest in our country. I mean, a lot of good things will happen. I happen to believe it's more than $2 trillion. But here's the thing and I use it because it's so incredible. Here's the thing. It's not controversial. It's not like you have the Republicans here and you have, everybody agrees. They've agreed you know that for 2, 3 years. They can't make a deal. And now what's happening and this will be the next great story is companies are leaving the United States, two reasons, lower taxes but also to get their money. They've got billions of dollars overseas. They're leaving our country in order to get their money and in order to pay lower tax. And you're talking about one company I know of, I don't know how much they've written about it, but you're talking about 6000 jobs just one company. You're talking about potentially thousands of companies. And I say it, in the old days, they'd leave New York. People would move down and companies would move down to Florida or they'd move to Texas or they'd leave New Jersey, where taxes are quite high, and they'd move to another location. Right? Now, they leave our country and they go to other countries. That's what's happened. In the world of the Internet and the world of very fast jets, it's a different world out there. And there's no loyalty. They're paid a lot of money to make a lot of money for their shareholders and some of them are actually foreign; they'd like to move back to these countries. They bring in executives that are from Ireland, from other places. And they don't mind. They don't have loyalty to the United States. So my plan, my tax plan, is something I'm very proud of. We're going to solve corporate inversion. I'll tell you what, we will have that money back, if I get elected president, that money will be back so fast your head will spin. Nobody else will be able to do it. Nobody. Honestly, nobody else even knows about it. The other candidates, most of them don't even know about it. It's not their wheelhouse. Okay? It's not their thing. It's not their thing. Their thing is getting reelected. That's what they're good at. They get reelected. And they make promises and they're all talk and they're no action. And the same things happen with these politicians. It's always the same. So we have so many different things and what I've done with our tax plan, which something I'm very proud of, we've brought it down to a few groups. Because right now, you have to go out, people who aren't doing well go out and hire companies to help them with their tax plans. They'll pay $500, $1000 because it's so complicated. And we're going to make it nice and simple. And we're getting rid of carried interest, which is something that a lot of rich hedge fund guys love. But we're getting rid of it. They don't love me so much anymore. But I don't care. And we're getting rid of a lot of things. So we're going to have a nice simple tax return. Somebody said Oh, why isn't everybody paying? You know, 40%,a big percentage, will not pay any tax at all. People that are doing badly. They said, well, I won't use the candidates' name because I don't want to insult any candidate when they can't defend themselves. They said We want everybody to pay at least something. And I said, I agree. Here's the problem. From the standpoint of bookkeeping, from the standpoint of bureaucracy, you're talking about millions and millions of returns. You're talking about building the IRS even bigger and it's a monster. And I could cut it down way down. And the money that you're talking about is far less than the administrative costs. So I said, I agree. Except for one thing from a practical standpoint, it's too much. Most of these people aren't paying anyway. What I want to do is bring our jobs back from China, bring our jobs back from Mexico, bring fairness to our deals as an example with Japan. I was in Los Angeles. Ships, the biggest ships you've ever seen. Cars are pouring off into this country. Made in Japan. We give them practically nothing. The balance is so bad. The imbalance is so bad. And then we have all the strikes. See, what our people don't know and only somebody that wrote The Art of the Deal or does this stuff. It's natural. It's like a great athlete. Like a Jack Nicklaus. He was always able to sink that putt. Right? You know, he's just better. And you have athletes, very few, but there are some people that have a certain ability. A lot of people don't even know we have all the power. We have all the power in China. You know, we owe right now China and Japan equally $1,think of this, trillion. $1 trillion. Think of this. They take our business and in the case of Japan, mostly cars. But they take our business. They take our jobs. Factories close down all over the place. And we owe them money. Right? It's a magic act. For them not for us. For us it's a horror show. It's going to end. It's going to end. And people like Carl Icahn and the people like the best negotiators, I know the best negotiators in the world. Some I think are horrible people. I'll be honest with you. I don't care. Do you care if they're horrible people? Who cares? Now, Carl happens to be actually a very nice guy but he's a brilliant negotiator and a tough cookie and he's built a fortune. He doesn't want money. He doesn't want to say, Oh, give me $200000 a year in government money. He wants to do it. He's proud to do it. He wants to help the country. And it's so easy for him. For instance, if I say Carl, do me a favor. The trade deal we have with China is so unfair we're losing $400 billion a year. Carl, do me a favor. Make it fair. I don't have to give him a big speech. I don't have to give him a big speech. I mean, I can tell you that within a very, very short period of time, things will straighten out. I mean, things will straighten out and it's going to be our benefit. But think of it, if we're losing that kind of money, that imbalance. It's an imbalance. Some people will say That's not really a loss. It is a loss. If we have that kind of imbalance and suppose you brought it back to zero or even if we lost $100 billion a year, that's a lot of money. Believe me, I couldn't sleep. If I brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right? But suppose we brought it back to $100 billion or we brought it back to zero, do you know what that means to this country? Do you know the kind of money you're talking about? Then jobs will start coming back, lots of good things would happen. Lots of great things would happen. And maybe our babies who have all these toys all over the place, maybe they'll have 75% and maybe they'll like them better. Maybe they'll be better. And they'll be manufactured here. Whenever I order television sets, I ordered thousands and thousands of television sets a year for different jobs. And whenever I order them, they all come from South Korea. They make all the television, other than Sony but Sony has sort of lost its way a little bit. Sony is Japan. But South Korea, LG, Samsung. I don't get bids from American. I'd love to. I'd love to. George Will said there's a company in South Carolina that makes television. I said where are they? I'd like to have a good name too by the way. It's important. You know, when somebody's paying you a fortune for a hotel room, it's nice to see a good name. Right? Do we agree? Well, it's a company in South Carolina but they don't make them there; they assemble them. They'll order parts that come in and they'll assemble them. But much different. But I'd love it if we made them. But you take South Korea. We defend South Korea for essentially nothing. You have the maniac over in North Korea that nobody ever talks about by the way. Now, he really has nuclear weapons and we don't talk about him. We made the worst deal ever made with Iran. Right? The worst. These are the people that represent, these people are incompetent. Or stupid. Somebody said, You shouldn't say stupid. It's not nice. But it's true. They're stupid. I think. I mean, I think. Unless I don't know is there something going on that we don't know about? Think of it. Point after point, we lost. We lost everything. We've given them $150 billion. Hard to believe. They don't have to develop, I was telling somebody they don't have to develop nuclear weapon; they can buy it. What the hell why should they develop it? They can buy it. And now all of a sudden they're going into Syria. They got so much money. They're a terrorist state. They're going into all of these different places. We're fighting them in Yemen and yet we're making a deal with them. So why don't you say Hey, Yemen out? Our prisoners, I want them back. I want them back. I don't want them over there. I want them back. And all we have to do, very simple, is if you have the right messenger. I'm the right messenger. You know, I've gotten to a point where I have to be braggadocious. It's terrible. Right? Because I can't be so nice and say We can all do a wonderful job. People can't do those kind of stuff. For instance, the wall. I said, I guarantee you that we're going to build a wall. It's going to be a real wall. We're going to have people come through and they're going to come through legally. Or they're going to come through with visas, which is a safe way, if we need it. And we want people to come through. I want people to come through. I don't want to say no. But we have at least 11 million, you know, the scary thing is nobody has any idea how many. You know, we've been hearing that number for years. You know, like 11 million. We have no idea. I spoke to one of the top people. They have no idea. Might be 5 million. Might also be 32 million. Could be $50 million But we have to get them out. We have to, look, it's harsh. Dwight Eisenhower, we all like Dwight. Right? Remember the expression. Right? I go remember he got elected,I like Ike. How could he be bad? All right? And I think he was a nicer general than MacArthur and Patton. And I like Ike as a president but I love Patton and I love General MacArthur. I love them. And we're going to find ourselves a Patton and we're going to find ourselves because we have a lot of smart guys in our military and women. We're going to find ourselves a Patton. But we're going to find a Patton and we're going to find a MacArthur. And I'm really good at that. We're going to find great people. And I've told this story where I watched these generals go on television, they shouldn't be on television. They shouldn't be talking. You know? They shouldn't be talking. They should be doing. And they asked a certain general, I'm not going to insult him. It was like a month and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said here's general so and so, one of the top, top, top people. I said what's he doing on television? And he's saying Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out. By the way, they took the oil that I said take. Remember I said Take the oil? Always take the oil! They're being funded by the oil that I said take. I don't want their damned oil. But you know what? It turned out to be another benefit of having it. Take the oil. And we didn't do it. We shouldn't have been in Iraq in the first place. And I said that in 2003. Shouldn't have been there. We totally destabilized the Middle East. We totally blew it. But we were there. Then Obama announces because he's so predictable We are leaving on a certain date in a year. Right? I couldn't believe. I was sitting there thinking Did he really say that? He said We will have all troops out by a certain date. Right? Did he say that? I said No, no, tell me please. Oh, you know what another one I got high marks on from every poll? Military. They think I'll be the best in the military because they say I, you know, I always say I'll be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I will. But everybody knows that, especially God. Everybody knows that. But you know what I'll be? I'll be the great at the military. I'll be so good. And I'll know when, and I'll build our military so strong, so tough, so incredible, nobody's going to mess around. We're never going to have to use it. We're never going to have to use it. And I'm going to take care of our vets. Believe me, they're our greatest people and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal immigrants. I'm going to take care of our vets. So go back. So the world is unpredictable. I made a business deal a year ago. And the guy, oh, I beat him so badly. Aye, it was so beautiful. It was a beautiful thing. It was like a picture. For me, it was like a picture. That's my own problem. I guess. But to me it's like a painting when you could do something like that. So I made this deal and it was great. And they called. They did a story on me recently and it was a nice story. And I said, I hope they don't call this guy. They ended up calling this guy What do you think about Trump? And he said but in a respectful way, he said He won because he was so damn unpredictable. We don't know what the hell he was going to do. That's a positive. That's a positive. I mean, if you're a poker player and you're predictable, you're not going home with much money. Okay? But it was really, I said, That's not nice what he said. First, I said That's not nice. I'm unpredictable. Then I said, Wait a minute. He meant that as a compliment. And I called him. I said, What did you mean by that? He said I think that's the greatest compliment I can pay. We could not figure you out. You came at us from 15 different angles. So with Obama, when he announces that we're leaving Iraq on a certain date, we shouldn't have been there but once you announced the bad guys, you know how they say the surge worked? You know why the surge worked? You know why? Because the bad guys all moved back. They said, Hey, what do we have to get killed for? I mean, these people don't mind being killed, can you believe it? But they said If we don't have to, let's not. So they moved back. And they said, Hey, they're leaving in, What was the date? Do you remember the date? Specific date to the day. We will have all troops out. I'm a great president. So the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they just said, Oh, you're leaving in a year. Going to have all the troops out. Let's go back. Why do we have to be shot at for the next year? And what do we have to do because if we do well maybe he'll change his mind and stay. So let's let him think he has this great victory with the surge. Right? The surge worked! What happened was that everybody pulled back. They said, Let's wait. Now we leave because of a lack of leadership. We leave and boom it comes apart. That's what happened. That was the surge. Everybody talk so much,Oh, the surge was so great. The surge was great because everybody knew, they knew what was happening. They knew it was going to happen. They knew we were leaving even through Bush. I mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. They were fed up. So they pulled back and they said, Let's get them out. Everybody wanted to leave. Now, I would have done it differently. Even if I wanted to leave and I might or I might not. I won't even say. People say, Mr. Trump, what's your attitude on ISIS? When will you attack them? Where? I say You know, I don't want to talk, I have a real chance of winning. I don't want to tell you what my attitude. I want them to guess. I don't really want to tell you. I mean, the one bad thing about our system, we have a system that got flaws. Let's face it. Hey, look at our leadership, it's got flaws. But you know the one bad thing? When I gave that answer, they say, although some people, I see it here, some people say We love that. We love that. But when I give that answer, some people say Oh, Trump doesn't know. He doesn't know. He didn't give an answer as to exactly what he's going to do. Exactly what he's going to do. And I know exactly what I'm going to do and eventually after I was asked the question by 10 different reporters, all of whom are here tonight by the way, I said, You know, here's the problem. If I don't give the answer, I'm not going to win because they write so incredibly negatively. So if I don't give the answer, I'm not going to win. They're going to say Trump wouldn't give us the answer. They don't know it's unpredictability. They don't know it's strategy. And I said for a period of time like a month, I said I don't want to tell you because I actually have a chance because from the time I announced, I've been on the top of the polls, almost at the top. You know, we're doing well. Iowa, will you get your numbers up please? Would you get these numbers up? I promise you I would do such a good job. First of all, I am a great Christian and I am. I am. Remember that. And I do well with the evangelicals. But the evangelicals left me down a little bit just last month. I don't know what I did. But I am a great Christian. I'm a believer and I believe in the Bible. And I even brought my Bible a month ago to a group signed by my mother, Mary, and with the address and the date, I won't tell you what date it was because possibly you'd think I'm younger than that. But she didn't want anybody taking my Bible because that was very important to her. So cute. She has the address, has the date. But I said to myself, You know, By the way, before I forget, will you get the numbers up Iowa please? This is ridiculous. I mean, what is my competition? In all fairness, in all fairness, what is my competition? Do you think these guys, I'm not going to say Carson, I'm not going to say Rubio, who really is way down, I mean, I am second. It's not like it's terrible. But I don't like being second. Second is terrible to me. But do you think that Ben is going to go to China? These guys are fierce. Like they'd come into your office. I've made many deals with China. I've had great victories in terms of deals with China. They come into your office. There's no Hello. How are you? It's a wonderful day. They come in,We want deal. There's no games. I do this for a living. I'm really good at it, folks. Really good. And you know, when you talk about energy, I'll tell you one thing, everybody agrees, oh, do I have energy. Oh. I toss and turn thinking about how I'm going to make the best deal for you folks. I'll be tossing and turning. I will be tossing and turning. You're going to have so many deals that is so good for you. We're going to have numbers are going to be so good. I always joke you may get tired of them but then I always take that back because nobody gets tired of winning. We don't win anymore. You know, think about it. Do we win at all? Ever? We lose with the military. ISIS beats us. Everybody. We lose with trade. When are we going to come back and say, We beat China on a deal? When are we going to come back, We beat Japan? Do you know that everybody said Oh, Japan. They have so power over us. They have so much power because we owe them $1 trillion and they send all those cars. They have no power. If we ever say, Listen, if you're not going to treat us fairly, we don't want your cars anymore, they'd go out of business, folks, they're gone. Same thing with China. China is not even doing that well. But they just lowered, they just devalued their currency. The biggest in two decades. And the reason they did it, they could never thought but we have so many other problems that they felt, Oh wow, we can get away with this and it's going to make it impossible. Did you see the results yesterday of Caterpillar Tractor? Horrible. Because they're not getting stuff out because everybody, Japan and China in particular, is devaluing their currency. That's their number one weapon. And the stupid trade deal that we're making doesn't even cover it. That's their number one weapon and the trade that we're making doesn't cover it. So I only say this and you know what? People might say It's terrible. He's a terrible person, a terrible human being. But I'm going to vote for him anyways. Okay, that's fine. I'm actually a nice person. I always say this, nobody can do this stuff better than me. And I know all the guys I'm running against. They're wonderful people. Some of them I really like. But who cares? I was talking to one of the candidates the other day. I was talking about corporate inversions and they didn't even know what the hell I was talking. They had no idea. It's not their thing. And unless we stop all of the things that are going with other countries and unless we make great trade deals, we're being eaten alive. That's why when you look at the phony numbers, we have 100 million people in our workforce that aren't working. Our real unemployment rate is probably 30%. It's not 5%. That was done for politicians so they'd look good. It's not 5%. How can you have 5% when you have 100 million people? You look for a job. If you're a young guy, that handsome young guy with the red hair, right therebut if he comes out and he goes into the workforce and he looks for a job and he goes through college and does well and then he can't get a job and when he gives up because at some point after months you give up, they essentially consider you employed. It's the most ridiculous thing. We have a tremendous, tens of millions of people in that position. They can't find jobs. They're good people. They want to work. They can't. But it's not reflected in the real numbers because the politicians want to look good. So let me just before we talk some questions, I'm going to talk about something I've never really talked about it onstage but we should talk about it. It's called Super PACs. It's one of the great scams of all time. It's one of the great scams. So we sent out, I think I had, and it's not me. People set them up. And I don't know. Maybe they're setting up for my benefit. Let's take me. A guy sees me, likes me, sets up a Super PAC. I don't talk to him. I don't do anything. I think we had either 9 or 5 or 11. We don't even know. They're all over the place. Trump, Trump, one of them called The Art of the Deal PAC after the book. They have all these PACs. And the money comes in. And what do they do with the money? I don't know. And we aren't supposed to call them or anything. Okay. So, we wrote a letter, a legal letter, to I think either 9 or 11 last week saying we don't want their money, send it back because again, what do they do with it? If some guy that's having a hard time all of a sudden has $2 million sitting in a Super PAC, do you think he's going to take ads for Trump? Maybe and maybe not. So we sent them a, it's a scam, Super PACs, a scam. It's a disgrace that we have. A disgrace. And I'll tell you I read a number with, as an example, with Ben. Ben is paying 70 to almost 80 cents on the dollar to raise money. So when you read he has all this money, he's paying a lot of money and that's not reflected yet. So when you hear they raised $20 million, they're paying, now think of it, who pays, the number I actually heard was 79 but you know these guys will check them so I'm telling you it may be off but you all know it's a lot. I think they said, 79 cents on the dollar. Think of it. To raise the money, they take 79 cents before they get to use the money for what it was supposed to be. Somebody is making a fortune. I know in Romney's campaign, a couple of guys walked away with millions and millions of dollars. Millions. They became rich raising money. It's better than being a real estate broker. For the people and real estate brokers, they take these massive percentages of the money they raise. It's a scam. It's a scam. Now, in Ben's case, his Super PAC is running Iowa. And let me tell you, the people that are running that Super PAC, even if it comes in small donations, those are the real bosses. Those are the bosses. In the case of Jeb Bush, you're not supposed to deal with these Super PACs. Okay? So, it was in the Wall Street Journal the other day. He has a Super PAC fundraiser or something in a hotel and right next to it, he had his campaign ballroom. Did you read that? Two ballrooms. One here, one here, right next to each other by coincidence, of course. They're not supposed to be coordination. They're not supposed to be talking. They're right next to each other. And that's nothing compared to what some are doing. It's a scam and it should be stopped. And it's unfair to somebody like me that is spending my own money. And what happened and I haven't talked about this before but I'm seeing what's going on. It's horrible what's going on. What happened is the last time they had the Super PACs, I actually think there was sort of a wall. You know, they called it the wall. And this is a wall too. Won't be as good as the one I'm going to build but it's a wall. But it was a wall and they didn't deal. I mean, even though like Bush has a friend of his running his Super PAC, I'm sure they never talk. I'm sure. What do you think the chances are that they talk? 100% or 99%? 100%. I'd say 100%. I'd say 100%. Only a foolish person would say 99%. But whatever. They're not supposed to. But they put a friend in there. They put other people in there. They put whoever. And that's the way it works. And in some cases, I hear in Ben's case, I hear in other cases, they're literally running. I mean, had Walker done this in all fairness because he had money in the Super PAC but he had no money in his campaign and he was unable to figure out this is what they're all doing. That's why he's out of the race because he couldn't figure it out. The whole thing with Super PACs is a horrible, horrible scam. So I sent letters last week to as many as we could find. They're all over the place. We want you to close the Super PAC. We want nothing to do with it. We don't want to get advertisements. We don't want any of the money. Go home and ideally give the money back. They don't even have to give the money back from what I understand. They can keep it. They'll probably if they actually raised money for me, they'll say What a horrible thing he just said. I think we're going to support somebody else. They could do that. But the Super PACs have total control over the people running for office. Total. Nothing over me. Nothing. I feel it's very unfair. I feel it's a very unfair situation. Now, if they want, they could have full disclosure and everything. But what are they doing with this whole thing? And I think it makes dishonest people out of people that might be honest. But the Super PACs are controlling your candidates, some more than others. Some are unbelievable. And what the press should really do is take a look at how much money is left. When you read that Ben raised $1, how much is left after he pays all of the consultants and all of these people, how much is left to spend in the campaign. You'll be amazed. I mean, it's so little. Bush, it's the same thing. And I'll go over, there are other names. I know every one of them. But it's a horrible thing that's taking place. And again, last cycle, at least they went through the motions. Now, they're not even going through the motions. They're not even going through. And just remember when I have to negotiate with companies to keep them in this country so they build jobs here and they build their plants here and their factories here and they do all of the things here, when I have to do that, you know, John Deere, I paid them tens of millions of dollars. You can even check. I said to John Deere, I want an endorsement. I don't know if they'll give me an endorsement. I'll tell you if they don't they're not so smart. I guarantee no other person gave John Deere, I mean, I bought probably more than $10 million worth of John Deere equipments. I love it. You know why? Iowa. Iowa. I love it. I love it. When we can. By the way, it's a great company. It's a great company. But I buy a lot of stuff from John Deere because I have a lot of big developments that really require John Deere type equipment. I don't have to buy it from them. I could buy it from others. But I want to steer it to them when I can. But we have to do something to clean up this political mess because it's crooked stuff. It's crooked stuff. And it's got to stop. And it's very unfair to people who go out and do it the way you're supposed to do it, including me. I think I'm the only one that's self funding. I'm the only one putting up my own money, other than, I know it's precious, people write in to or whatever and they send me checks like $20. I keep saying the woman for $7, $50, $100. I don't want their money. But if you send it back it's totally insulting. I mean, they always write letters too. They write these beautiful letters,Mr. Trump, I can't afford much and I know you don't need it but I'm sending $50 because that's so important what you're saying about the country. It's beautiful. I mean, I've seen such beautiful letters. And if I send it back, there's no letter I can write that's not going to be insulting to those people, really. Dear Mr. So and So or Mrs. So and So, I don't need your money and thanks a lot but we're going to do it ourselves. If I got that back, I'd say Who the hell does he think he is? So we take that and it's something that I think is important. So I always preface it by saying I don't consider that funding but I'm self funding my campaign and I'm getting ready to put up millions, millions. And something I'm very proud of that I think it's great and it's you know really great, it hasn't gotten very much publicity, hasn't gotten much publicity, but I have spent less money than any other candidate. Okay? By far. I think. I don't know, probably a couple of guys that have nothing so they just go around. But I was told that I spend less. And I have the best results because in most polls I'm number one. Now, until Iowa came along, I said every poll, and then Iowa, what the hell are you people doing to me? You know? You know? I'm telling you. They said, Why don't you skip Iowa? They told me that. Everybody said Skip Iowa. All of the political geniuses. A man just interviewed me back there, great reporter. He's actually a great reporter. Of course, if he writes a bad story, I won't say that. But he is. He's a great reporter. And he said, Would you ever think of maybe skipping Iowa going right to New Hampshire? And then you'd go to South Carolina where I'm leading by massive, yeah, you've got to see the rallies there. They're incredible. But you'd go to New Hampshire. You'd go to South Carolina. You go to Nevada. You go to the SCC. I said I can't do that because I have such an unbelievable relationship with the people from Iowa that I think we're going to win. I really do. I believe it. I believe it. And I don't want to skip Iowa. I think we're going to do well. I think we're going to do great with evangelicals. I think a lot of things are going to come out over the next period of time that are not going to be so good for our opponents, honestly, and I think I'm going to do great with the evangelicals because I am the real deal. I will tell you that. I'm the real deal. So I told these political pros, you know, I hate to say it but the last long number of elections on the Republican circuit, the person that won Iowa did not get the nomination. Okay? I want to take away some of your muster. You understand that. So could we do, and please do me a favor? Let me win Iowa. And then I'm going to win, I'm telling you we're going to win New Hampshire, and we're going to win South Carolina. A great poll just came out on North Carolina just a little while. A PPP poll. It was great. Some of you saw that. But great poll. But we're going to go on and we're going to win. We're going to win. And actually, one of the pundits, because you have some smart pundits and some very, very dumb pundits. A lot of pundits said He'll never run. He's not going to run. They're still trying to recover. But one of the very smart one says If Trump wins Iowa, it's over. It's interesting because it will go right through because everywhere else is so great. And I thought it was good here. Come on. Okay, so that's the end of that. But I want to tell you, will you, I refuse to say Get your asses in gear. I will not say that. I will not say it. I will not say it because I don't want to use anything that's even a little bit off. So will you please do me a favor and work with my people and go out on Feb. 1stand vote and give us a victory? And if I win Iowa, we're going to run the whole table and we are going to make such great deals and we're going to have such a great military and we're going to take care of our health care without that crazy Obamacare that's a nightmare. So, I'm sticking with you people. I'm going to spend money here. I have a great team over here. And I will tell you I'm going to spend a lot of time here and I really want to win Iowa and I think we should and it's so important. And you know, it's about time that Iowa could have a victory and let that person go onto a total victory. Okay? Not like over the last, right? So, I love you all. I mean, we're having fun. But I love you all. But I do mean it. I'm going to stay here. We're going to work really hard. When I heard the poll today, they said What are you going to do? I said, I'm going to work harder in Iowa. I'm not leaving Iowa. I'm not leaving Iowa. Now, if I lose Iowa, I will never speak to you people again. That I can tell you. Okay, let's do a couple of questions. Right? Come on. So, we're going to be discussing something so important for our country, for our economy, and for getting us all working again and working well again. It's a tax reform that I think will make America strong and great again. Too few Americans are working. Too many jobs are being shipped overseas. And too many middle income families cannot make ends meet. This plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business. It will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other Americans. There will be a major tax reduction. It will simplify the tax code. It will grow the American economy at a level it hasn't seen for decades. And all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit. But I will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make much better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and we've got to make our economy strong. Changes for individuals will be at levels that you haven't seen in a long time. We're going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. Simplification. 25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%. If you're single and earn less than $25000 per year or married and jointly earn less than $50000,so, very important. If you're single and earn less than $25000 or married and jointly earn less than $50000, you'll not pay any income tax, nothing. This eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. Very unfair penalty. It eliminates the AMT, which is the alternative minimum tax. It ends the death tax. It's a double taxation. A lot of families go through hell over the death tax. It reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to special interests or to the very rich, in other words, it's going to cost me a fortune, which is actually true, while preserving charitable giving and mortagage interest deductions. Very importantly. It ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. Those are the hedge fund folks that I've been talking about for quite a while. They make a lot of money. Carried interest. So it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative partnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking their own capital. Changes for business, now, so important, because it's all about business. It's all about jobs. We have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want to work; they can't work. So for business, no business of any size from a Fortune 500 company to a mom and pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15% of their business income in taxes. Big reduction. A one time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly discount which coming back at a significantly discount,10%. So it comes back discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income earned abroad. Now, it's called corporate inversion. It's a huge subject. I've been watching politicians now for years, all talk, no action politicians. I've been watching them for years talking about bringing this money back. The number is probably $2 trillion. Everybody agrees it should come back, Republicans, Democrats, everybody. They can't make a deal. They don't know how to go about making a deal. The reason companies aren't bringing it back is the tax is onerous. It doesn't make sense to bring it back. And in fact, many companies are leaving the United States. They're leaving our shores to go and collect their money. They're going actually moving out of the United States for two reasons, the taxes are too high and because they have tremendous amounts of money that they can't bring back into this country when everybody wants them to bring it back in. It's called leadership. We will have that money brought back in. As an example, I have millions of dollars overseas. I can't bring it back into this country. We filed papers. We've been doing this for a year and a half. We can't get it back in. So the money stays in other countries and that's what happens. Not good for us. The level of leadership that we need to get things like this done is so important. But this is something, and I've been watching it for a long time, everybody agrees to. We also reduce or eliminate some business loopholes, many of them actually, and deductions made unnecessary or redundant by the new lower tax rate on business income. The tax rate now is so low that a lot of these deductions which are complicated, which don't make sense, and which are unfair are gone. And we phase in a reasonable cap on the deductability of the business interest expense. So we are going to give you, we have a very complex set of papers that actually if you know business is not so complex. And we're going to hand them out right now to the press. And I think you'll see we have an amazing code. It will be simple. It will be easy. It will be fair. It's graduated. As you get up in income, you pay a little more. Some of the very unfair deductions that certain people have been given who make a lot of money will not be available any longer. But I actually believe they'll do better because I think the economy will grow. It will grow rapidly. And we'll have something very special. Now, with all of that being said and before we take some questions, we have to cut the costs of what's going on in this country. If you look at what we're doing and the money we're spending. I read where a washer, you know what a washer is? Nuts, bolts, and washer, to send from one state to another, it was a 19 set washer and it cost $900000 and some odd dollars to send it from here to there. And there are many examples. Hammers that cost $800 that you can buy in the store for a tiny amount of money. We will run this country properly. There is so much money to be saved. We're reducing taxes but at the same time if I win, if I become President, we will be able to cut so much money and have a better country. We won't be losing anything other than we'll be balancing budgets and getting them where they should be. So, this is a plan that's simple, that's a major reduction. I think people are going to be very happy. We've already had some very good reviews. I did the plan with some of the leading scholars and economists and tax experts that there are in this country. They love it; they say Why hasn't this been done before? And this is my wheelhouse. That's what I do well. The economy is what I do well. Whenever they do polls, I always come out way above everybody else on the economy and on leadership, by the way, but I won't say that. So, if anybody has, thank you. That's amazing. That's some of the press was actually clapping. I've never saw, I don't think I've ever seen that before. All right. Why don't we take some questions from the press? We're doing really well. Iowa's been amazing. It's been amazing. We're doing so well and I love this place and I'm back here all the time and I'm going to be here a lot in January. You're going to be so sick of me. You'll probably say, We can't give the caucus, just forget it. We can't stand the guy any more. No, you're going to like me and we're going to be back and we're going to do a great job for you. Most importantly, we're going to get to that office and we're going to do the right thing. We're going to do the right thing. So, a few things. A lot so much has happened. You know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. And we were talking border security, which we're just doing so great with the border security. We're going to build a wall. Mexico's going to pay for the wall. We all know that. But we're going to have security. And the drugs are going to stop and the people that are going to come into the country but they're going to come into the country they're going to be legal, they're coming in legally, and that's the way. That's the way. And it affects Iowa so much. So we were talking about. So we were talking about that. We were talking about repealing Obamacare. Boom. It's going to be repealed. It's going to be replaced. I don't know if you've been seeing what's happening but Obamacare is a total disaster. It's dying of its own weight. And by 2017, meaning he'll be playing golf and I'll be working very hard. But 2017 instead you're not getting the people signed up. There's been a lot of talk about it and a lot of stories about it. Obamacare's dead but we'll terminate it quicker than that. And we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better. Premiums are going through the roof. Deductibles are so high that unless you're close to death, you'll never going to get to use. And even then I don't think you're going to get to use it really. So, we're going to take care of that. And by the way, we have a lot of good people. We have ethanol. Nobody is really we have the ethanol where are the ethanol people? Right? I was here a month ago and I met with them all and they do a fantastic job. I toured the plants and they do a fantastic job but it's so important. And it's another form of let's stay away from OPEC and let's stay away from that Middle East stuff. It's so important Actually what I don't understand because the one guy that's doing pretty good with me in Iowa is Ted Cruz and he's a nice guy. I mean, everything I say he agrees with me. No matter what I say. I was going to do one really wild but he agrees. But with the ethanol, really, he's got to come a long way because he's right now for the oil. But I understand it. Oil pays him a lot of money. He's got to be for oil, right? The oil companies give him a lot of money. But I'm with you. I'm with everybody. Look, I'm self funding. I have no oil company. I have no special interest. I have no lobbyist that want me and you know, they're representing countries that are ripping off the country, they're representing companies that are ripping off our country. All I do is I'm going to be working for you folks. We're going to do this thing together. We're going to make America so great again and maybe better than ever before. So important. So when we first started, I talked about China how they're ripping us and Japan and Mexico. Mexico both at the border and in trade. They're taking so many of our companies. Nabisco's moving there with their big plant. Ford is moving there with a big plant. They took a big plant away from Tennessee a great state they took it away at the last moment. I'm not going to let that stuff. We're going to do what we have to do, okay? But I talked about that and I talk about it a lot. The fact is that about 2 weeks ago with Paris, I'm speaking a little bit differently now. Believe me, I can take care of China in my back pocket. That's easy for me. That's what I do. And we have all the cards. A lot of people don't know. You know, these politicians they don't understand we have the cards. You know, with China, our people pay tax. They pay no tax. It's not supposed to be that way. They call it a tariff because it sounds better. But we'll take care of that. We'll take care of all of that. What happened is with Paris, there's a different mindset. And when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people felt more secure with me. Now, maybe it had to do who knows why? Who knows? But my poll numbers went up. And do you ever notice whenever there's something that I do that's proper but controversial, they'd say Oh, now he's gone. That's it. That's the end. I won't go over all of the different things because maybe you'll change your minds. But they'd say, That's it. It's over. And then they'd come in, Sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week. I said, They did? Because I have to do what's right. I have to do what's right. And you know what? If I don't make it, I don't make it. I have a good life. We all hopefully have a good life. I have a great family, nice people, wonderful people. They love me. I think. I hope. I think. But I have a great family and I built a great business. There's such spirit There's such spirit no matter where I go. You know, I go to Dallas. We have 20000. 35000 people in Mobile, Alabama. 20000 people in Oklahoma. Wherever we go in Iowa, we have these crowds. You know this is supposed to be for like a record. It is big and yet it feels intimate. It feels good So I changed a couple of weeks ago. When I saw Paris I changed. And a big, big part of what I'm doing now is safety and security and smartness and smartness. Sort of interesting. You know, the slogan is Make America Great Again and I'm adding Make America Great Again and Safe Again because we don't feel safe anymore. And the problem we have now that we've never had to this extent is the power of weaponry. It's the power. It's the tremendous power. You know, 100 years ago, I would have said Let's not go. I said Don't go there anyway. And I said it strongly Don't go. You're going to destabilize the Middle East. But the fact is right now, we're going to have to do things because we have some really, really sick degenerates. And the press look at all those cameras going all live, all you know, nobody else has cameras like this. They can make a speech 100 times they make a speech, nobody cares. Look at this. And don't worry, they never pan the crowd. You know, they never; they have me. That's why I'm walking around. I figured I'll walk around maybe they'll get the crowd. They never pan the crowd. I tell them Pan the crowd, they never do. I had a crowd 7000 people last week. More. 7000 people and in a confined space. They had 3000 people outside that couldn't get in. My wife says, Darling, the speech was excellent. Did you have many people there? I said What? She said, Well, they never leave your face. They keep it purposely. But I'll tell you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you can't move them, right? But every time there's a protester Well, I'm protesting and it can be in the back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there. It's true. It's true. It's true. No, I used to think they couldn't move. You know, maybe there's something with the crazy computers. You know, in the old days everything was better right? The car seats. You'd sit in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a button. Bing, bing. Now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes. Well, the same thing I figured with cameras. I didn't think they moved. I figured they were fixed for certain reasons. And then I saw a protester and those cameras were bent in positions like you wouldn't believe possible. So, they're very dishonest people. What can I say? Not all of them but most of them. I'll tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard. The Des Moines Register is the worst. They are the worst. The worst. No, they're very dishonest. You have some reporter named Jacobs. She is the worst. She will write so it's such misrepresentation. And so I don't care. I mean, who cares? So I'm saying it right in their backyard. They're failing anyway. They probably won't be in business in two years. I think they're losing a fortune. I think. You know, it's funny. Every time the Des Moines Register does a poll, I always do badly. I'm only doing this so they don't sue me but I don't mind if they do. I hope they sue me because they don't have enough money to sue me. That's the good thing. But I believe and I may be wrong in fact, I'll say I'm sure I'm wrong but it's my opinion that they don't do it properly because you know they poll like 300 or 400 people. I'll explain it You know, if they lose 20 people in the pocket. Oh, Trump? Oh, forget that one. Forget that one. Now, I don't know that they do that. Do you do that, Des Moines Register? But every time I have a Des Moines Register poll, I do poorly. I also do poorly with the Bloomberg polls. I don't know why. But we had a great poll come in CNN last couple of days where we're leading I think by 13 points in Iowa. In Iowa. And then we have another coming where we're doing well. But I think Des Moines Register has somebody says it's coming out sometime. I'll just tell you, watch Trump disappears! I think we're going to do so well. I think we're actually going to even do better. You know, we're leading in most of the poll. We're leading in every poll. Except Iowa there was one poll there was one poll, Monmouth I'd never even heard Monmouth. What the hell is Monmouth? What is Monmouth? Explain it. I don't like Monmouth. You know why I don't like it? Because they always treat me badly also. But I only like polls that treat me well. But we're doing so well. Nationwide, we're leading every poll by tremendous. We just had one in Georgia 44%. 44%. Think of that. That's 44% with 15 people. I'd take 44% if we had three people. I don't think I'd take it if we had two people but I think I'd take if we had three. But 44%. CBS came out as you know, you probably saw that, New York Times two days ago and we're at 35% to a small number. We're killing everybody in every poll. Just one little outlier here. Again, I'm sure when Des Moines comes out it'll be a negative because I don't believe that poll. But we are going to win. And I'll tell you what. Honestly, Iowa is so important to me. I could say, Oh, let's not do I am an evangelical. I am a Christian. I'm a Presbyterian. I'm a Presbyterian. I love Billy Graham. Franklin Graham came out with the most beautiful statements. Franklin Graham. He was so incredible. He came out I don't know if you all saw the statements he came out with about Trump He was so incredible. Franklin Graham was amazing, the son of Billy Graham, who was, you know, there's nobody, nobody that I've ever seen Billy Graham was unbelievable. If anybody's gone to his crusades, they were incredible. But so I think we're going to do we're doing really well with the evangelicals And by the way and again, I do like Ted Cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba in all fairness. It's true. Not a lot come out. But I like him nevertheless. I think we're going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. We're doing great with the Tea Party, leading with the Tea Party. And we're doing fantastic with all the young and middle. We're doing great with everybody. And so it's very important for me to win Iowa. Now, I could put less pressure on myself and I could say, Oh, I don't care about Iowa. I don't care. But I do care. I do care so much about it. That's why we're here all the time. And then the lies happened. You know, when I was using Iowa, they lied so much. I said, The people of Iowa can't be that stupid or the people of the country can't. I'm trying to make a point, right? So I said, The people of the country can't be that stupid. Well, they cut the country out so it's referring to Iowa. I love you people. Remember that. Remember that. I was talking about something, and I won't even mention what I'm talking about because the guy I'm talking about and was actually a very good guy. But I will say this. We want to win Iowa so bad. Because if I win Iowa, I think we'd run the table. I really do. I think we'd run the table. We'd go right through. Because we're leading big in New Hampshire every poll. Big. Big in New Hampshire. Christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up there. It's the weirdest deal I've ever seen. And you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, Are you sure about that? Nobody ever called us. They can't believe it. And we can get into that but it's irrelevant. But we're leading New Hampshire big. We're leading in South Carolina like monstrous numbers. We're leading Nevada. We're leading in Texas. We're leading everywhere. We're leading big in Florida. Now, you have Rubio nice guy, by the way. You have Rubio and he is a nice guy but you've got to vote. When people put you in a position to be a Senator, you've got to go and vote. You can't be the number one person that doesn't vote in the Senate. You've got to say, Hey, I'm a young guy. I want to go and vote. You should stay there a little longer. He's a good guy. Stay there, go in, vote, create a nice record. But I don't know. How's he doing in Iowa? Not too good. Right? He's not doing well. How's Rubio doing? Not good. I mean, it seems like a two person race right now and it's an important race to me. So I just want to let you know it's very important. So with all of that, if we win Iowa, a lot of people say we'd just go through. I think we'll win virtually every state in the Union and it's over quickly. Over quickly. What about the Republican establishment? The establishment's got a problem, you know. It's sort of like the fighters. You know, the great champions. Sometimes they'll go into the hometown of a guy they're fighting and they'll say, You know, we'd never want to get a decision. We go for the knockout. The knockout is the knockout. Because you get a lot of bad decisions. I know a lot about the world of sports, believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight and it's a decision and they say, Uh, we're in a problem and they'd lose the fight that they won. The only way they win the fight definitely knock out. So, if we win Iowa, I think we're going to win everything after that. So I think it's going to show how important Iowa is. I'll pledge this to Iowa. Even if I lose, I'll pledge it, okay? I don't think I've ever said that in my life. If we go and win, Iowa's staying right where it is in the chain. It's not moving. You know, there's a big move to move Iowa into a much further back position by the establishment. Folks, I win it's not happening, okay? You're staying right here because it's great. It's great. You've been paying into Social Security and Medicare, by the way. Let's put them in. Because Medicare does work. With both, you have tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse. We're going to take care of that. Okay? But we're not going to cut your Social Security and we're not cutting your Medicare. We're going to take jobs back from all these countries that are ripping us off. We're going to become a wealthy country again. And we're going to be able to save your Social Security. I can't believe this number but I read it over who is the man that told me the number over 6 million people I can't believe it are aged 112 and over are getting Social Security But I heard it. I read it. A tremendous like 6 million people are getting Social Security. They're dead. Meaning somebody else is picking up The press is going to have to check it because what do I know? But can you imagine, we have 6 million now, we know there's not 6 million, there may be one. But there's not 6 million. Anybody in this room 112 or over? Because if they are, I want to shake your hand. But so 6 million over 112 years old picking up Social Security and that's the beginning. So there's tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse. What we're going to do is we're going to save Medicare. We're going to save Social Security. We're not going to raise the age or we're not going to do all the things that everyone else is talking about doing. They're all talking about doing it, and you don't have to. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're going to make our economy incredible again. My tax proposal, which is in, and a great detail in terms of policy and it's gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people, a lot of great groups. But we are going to cut taxes tremendously for the middle class and for businesses because our middle class is being decimated. And when that happens, you're going to see an economy that takes off. We're going to get rid of a lot of that debt, if not all of it. But we're going to get rid of it you know, we're at $19 trillion going t $21 trillion right. You know, if you go back eight or nine years, trillion wasn't even a word anybody knew and now it's like routine. So we are going to save your Social Security without cuts. We're going to bring the economy back. We're going to make ourselves rich again. A woman said to me in New Hampshire recently, she said, Mr. Trump, I'm voting for you. I love you. But it's very crude when you say you're going to make our country rich again. I said, I know it's crude. It sounds bad. But many things I say are crude. It sounds bad. But we can't make our country great again unless we make our country rich again. We can't let everybody in the world rip us off. Remember, we built China. The money they took out of country, we rebuilt China. You go there, they have bridges all over the they have bridges like the George Washington Bridge. Maybe I shouldn't mention that particular bridge. But like bigger like the George Washington Bridge. Only a few people got that one; that's okay. But they have bridges going up. We have rebuilt China. They've taken our jobs. They've taken our base. They've taken our manufacturing all over the place. They've taken our money. They've taken our money. Not going to happen anymore folks. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen. I know the great business people. We have the greatest business people in the world. Guys like Carl Icahn. He calls me, Donald, I want to help. I want to help. The smartest people call. We're not going to use the special interest guy a donor. We use donors to negotiate with China because he gave some guy like, you know, whoever it might be. Because again, I'm the only one that's self funding my campaign. Everybody else isn't. These guys when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they own those politicians. They will do whatever the hell the special interests and the donors want. That's not going to happen with me. So, Social Security we're saving it. Medicare we're saving it. We're going to make our country rich. Okay? Thank you, sweetheart. Yeah, it's called the statute of limitations, right? And you know it's a six year year statute. Maybe five but it's probably six. But it's a six year statute. Yeah, you have to look at it. Look, Hillary Clinton you know this story. It's a crime. She committed a crime. Now, perhaps perhaps somebody, you know, we have to have a fair Justice Department and perhaps we'll have some really good Attorney General that's going to say Well, you know. Look, we want to be fair to everybody. Okay? Including Hillary Clinton. But she committed a crime in my opinion. Now, she shouldn't be allowed to run. She's being protected absolutely. I have little doubt that they're going to find anything. But they've already found it. I mean, you watch television. You have all these big scholars, these lawyers, Yes, she violated section so and so. Just one after another. I mean, actually violated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. Many laws. You mentioned General Petraeus. His life was destroyed over 5% of what Hillary Clinton did. Over nothing. So I think she's going to be their nominee definitely. The only question is whether or not she'll be allowed to run. She's being protected by the Democrats. She's being protected by the President. And that's why why do you think she's going along with these insane policies of his? Okay? I mean, she goes along with everything. I don't even honestly in all fairness to her, I don't think she believes it. But I think she's afraid he's going to say, Listen, I don't like her anymore. Go take care of her. I'm going to get somebody else. I'm telling you. So, the question is statute of limitations. It's a five year statute of limitations. She's got a problem. She's got a problem. In one way, she's running for her life because I know one thing, if she wins that's the end of that. Right? But if she loses she could have a very serious problem. Well, I said right at the beginning. We're going to build a wall that's going to be a real wall. That's going to be a real wall. It's not going to be you see that ceiling? That ceiling is nothing compared to the wall. And we can build it and we can build it right. And it will be strong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. It's got to be beautiful because someday they're going to name it the Trump Wall. I know that. It's going to happen. Going to happen. And it's going to work. And walls do work. You know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. You know they couldn't get environmental impact statements. That's just shows you. China is building in the South China Sea massive military bases. Right? Why? They're not supposed to. They have no respect for Obama or our country. They're not supposed to be doing that. And you could get them to stop just by saying We're not doing business with you anymore. Their whole economy would you don't have to go to war. It's economics. The whole country would collapse in two seconds. Believe me. We have such power and we don't know it. But they're building massive now, they had little islands. They put the biggest escavators, not Caterpillars. I think they're using Komatsu from Japan They have these massive escavators, and I said to a friend of mine who's Chinese from China very rich guy, very successful guy, paid me a fortune for an apartment so I happen to like him, okay? I said jokingly How long did it take them to do these massive islands they're building right out of the sea? Boom, those shovels go in, take out everything. How long did it take you to get the environmental impact statements? He laughed. He said, What are you kidding me? Nothing. They say We will build there. About two seconds later, you have escavators digging. So we had a problem with environmental look, I've won many environmental awards. I'm a big believer especially in clean air and clean water. I'm a big believer. Just so you know. Big. And I've gotten so many awards for the environment. So I understand the environment; I've won many, many awards. But when you look at how we're impinged and hurt. But the wall was stopped because they couldn't get an environmental impact statement among other things. They couldn't get an environmental impact statement. Now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. You were ruining the habitat of a rattlesnake. I don't know. But they actually had people a lot of people people that now would be against it but they wanted to build a wall and years ago they couldn't get it done. You know, I said bomb the oil, right? I've been saying that for three years. Now finally they started after Paris they started bombing the oil. I've been saying it for years. You know one of the reasons we didn't bomb the oil? Obama didn't want to hurt the environment. Now, I heard that and I thought somebody was kidding. I thought a comedian was saying it. It turned out to be true. He didn't want the flames and everything going into the atmosphere. This is the way we fight today. I'm telling you, folks, we're being led by stupid people. We're being led by stupid people. I've been saying not really bomb I've been saying take the oil. I didn't want to go into Iraq. But once we were there, I said Look, we shouldn't have been there. But then when we left, we left the wrong way. First of all, we have a president who told them a date. We're going to leave on such and such a date. What was it like 18 months later? So the enemy all of sudden said, Wow, because don't believe it. They don't want to be killed. Okay? They don't want to be killed. So the enemy said They're going to leave on a certain date? So they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what happened. It's a disaster and Iran is taking over Iraq. So anyway, I couldn't believe it when they said that. When we said to our 50 soldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces We are sending 50 soldiers. Okay, first of all, he thinks it's a good press announcement. It's not. 50 soldiers that's not a lot even though they're the elite. But those 50 soldiers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. They have a target on their heart. Why does he have to say that for? Why can't he let 50 soldiers go there quietly, stealth, stealth? Why can't he just do that? Why can't he do that? Those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably don't even know that but everybody is looking for them and that's the way it is. We have people that don't know what they're doing. We used to have General MacArthur Douglas MacArthur General George Patton. I mean, these were real people. These were real people. Today, we have generals that go on talk shows I saw a general the other day on a talk show. He said and this was serious and he's a good man. They're good men. But you've got to lead these men. Even the generals have to have some power over them. He said, We are in the worst shape in terms of preparedness that we've been in in decades. And this is the time when we have to be in the best shape because the world wants to kill us. And he said we are in the worst shape we've been in many, many decades. Now, number one, he shouldn't be saying that because you're telling the enemy that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. Right? We shouldn't be saying it. We shouldn't be saying it. I mean, even if it's true, you don't say it. You get it fixed and you do the opposite. One thing I'm going to do I'll tell you, I'm going to build our military so big and so strong and so powerful so powerful that nobody is going to mess with us. Nobody is going to mess with us. You know in many ways, it's the cheapest thing you can do. Everyone is toying with us right now. It's the cheapest thing you can do. The absolute cheapest thing you can do. We have to be much tougher. We have to be much stronger than we've been. We have people that knows what's going on. You take a look at just the attack in California the other day. There were numerous people, including the mother, that knew what was going on. They saw pipe bombs sitting all over the floor. They saw ammunition all over the place. They knew exactly what was going on. When you saw the World Trade Center go, people were putting to planes that were friends, families, girlfriends, and they were put into the planes, and they were sent back for the most part to Saudi Arabia. They knew what was going on. They went home and they wanted to watch their boyfriends on television. I would be very, very firm with families. And frankly that will make people think because they may not care much about their lives but they do care, believe it or not, about their families lives. It's a great honor. I want to thank Simon and Schuster, one of the most magnificent publishers. For years and years, I've heard about Simon and Schuster's being a fabulous, I was going to say the Rolls Royce, I was going to say the Harvard or the Yale, but they really are a great one. And I want to thank you very much. You've given us such tremendous support. And we did this quickly and I think we did it very effectively. It's been an incredible experience. We wrote a book and the title, Crippled America, is very tough but unfortunately we have to do what we have to do and I think one of the reasons we've been doing so well in the campaign is because we tell it like it is. We tell the truth. And America is crippled. We owe $17 trillion and now $18 trillion and now it's actually very soon going to be $19 trillion in debt. We have a military that doesn't have proper instruction from leadership. We don't know what we're doing. We're losing all over the world with trade deals. Every country, no matter what country you talk about, you can just pick a name out of a hat, they're beating us in trade. And we can't go on like this any longer. It's impossible to go on like this any longer. I always mention as an example Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor. We get Sergeant Bergdahl; they get five of the people they wanted and they wanted badly. And that's not the way it's going to work anymore. So we write about it in the book. We tell lots of different stories of lots of different things. And I think it's going to be very instructional, very important. To me, it was instructional. When I did The Art of the Deal, I think one of the reasons it was so successful is that it was largely instructional. Even today when I speak, so many people hold up the book The Art of the Deal and the other books we've done. So this is one that probably not since the Art of the Deal, I have to tell this to Louise and Simon and Schuster, have I worked so hard on a book and it was in a confined period of time. We wanted to get it out really, really quickly so that it pertain to what's going on right now. It's a moment of time. And we got it done. And David did a fantastic job. And all of my people did a great job. They helped me so much because we are doing a couple of other things right now. So this was not easy getting this in. But we see by the lines, the lines go down to Park Avenue. They've been forming since last night and I'm going to be signing books starting at 12 pm We're doing a couple of interviews and then we're signing books starting at 12 pm and that'll be very exciting for me. But we have fans that have bought the book and they just bought it and some have been online now for 12 and 14 hours. I don't know how they're doing this but they do it. They find a way. Well, I think it's a different book. You know, we just had polls come out today from Iowa where I'm leading. You saw the new poll from Iowa. You saw the new poll in New Hampshire where I'm leading big. A poll just came out in Florida where I'm leading big. Georgia, Texas. I mean, all over the place. And I think you know look we're doing well. And if you add Ben and myself we're beating everybody by a lot. That seems to be the big story that we're beating, they call it the establishment. It's called really the failed establishment because the establishment has let us down. But I don't know. I don't know how his book is doing. Well, I think my book is very hard hitting. His is a different kind of book and he's a different kind of a person. My book is very hard hitting. It says it like it is. And based on what Simon and Schusters just told me, it's selling like hotcakes. So we'll see. We're very different people. We have very different qualities and we are extremely different. And I'm different from all of the other candidates. Look, nobody can negotiate trade deals like me. We are going to take the $400 billion a year that we're losing with China, that's going to be turned around. The $75 billion a year that we're short on with Japan. The $50 billion a year that we lost to Mexico. And that's right, there will be a wall built. It will go up. It will be built. And people will come into the country legally. So I mean, much different than, you're look at Marco Rubio, very, very weak on illegal immigration. You look at Ben and he's very weak on immigration and he wants to get rid of Medicare. I mean, Ben wants to get rid of Medicare. You can't get rid of Medicare. It'd be a horrible thing to get rid of. It actually works. You get rid of the fraud, waste, and abuse. It works. So when a man is weak on immigration and wants to get rid of Medicare, I don't know how he stays here. No, I think that really Marco is overrated. And frankly had Bush been a better messenger, he has the better message. I mean, if that was me delivering that message it would have been a much different story because he hasn't been able to, Marco doesn't show up to the United States Senate. He's representing the people of Florida, which by the way that poll just came out today and I'm way up in Florida over everybody. But Marco is a sitting Senator and he doesn't show up for the people of Florida, and I don't think he should be doing that. Now, Bush gave a very weak message. I agree with that. It was poorly delivered. But the facts are on Bush's side and ultimately I think Marco's going to be hurt very badly. And if you look at Mr. Singer, you have to see where Mr. Singer is coming from and when you see where he's coming from, I think people are going to say, Whoa, we didn't know that. But look at Marco's stance on illegal immigration. It's really trouble for him. I don't see how he can win. Marco Rubio's personal finances are discredited. All you have to do is look at his credit card. I mean, he is a disaster with his credit cards. And I'll tell you what, I love Florida. I'm in Florida all the time. And for years, I've been hearing that his credit cards are disaster. I would think that when you take a look at it, you would find that. But his credit card debt and his problems with credit card and what he did when he was running the party apparatus with credit cards, I've heard about it for years. You'll have to find out. Well, he has a very bad record of finances if you look at what happened with his houses, with his, you know, he certainly lives above his means. There's no question about that. I'll tell you what. On the debates, it's very interesting. Because I don't really care that much. I want a room. I want a podium. And let's get going. Because I don't really care that much. But a lot of the people that are candidates who I respect, many of them, not all of them, but I respect many of them, they felt it was very unfair because Hillary Clinton was given all soft balls. I mean, she wasn't asked one tough question. They didn't talk about her foundation. They didn't talk about any of the problems. They didn't talk about the emails. When the email problem came up, Bernie Sanders lost his whole campaign. I mean, what he did was so stupid from his standpoint. In order to get a one minute soundbite of some applause, he gave up the emails. That was end of his campaign. First of all, people aren't going to his rallies anymore. He's finished. So unless something happens to her with respect to the emails, she'll easily be the candidate. But I will say this: She only got softballs. That's all she got. And if you look at the way we were treated, it wasn't the same way. With that being said, I don't really care. Well, I think the Republicans actually are doing a pretty good job overall. They coalesced at that last debate because I mean, it really started with me. The guy asked me a question. I think Harwood is probably finished as a credible reporter. He's a disaster. And he was, it was such as horribly put question and so obvious. And the Republicans coalesced around each other. It was actually pretty beautiful when you think about it. And all we want to do is to be treated fairly. But with me, I don't care that much. Just give me a podium. What I would say is this: The networks have made a fortune because of me, not because of anybody else. You know, they were saying that the last cycle, they had 2 million and 1 million people and the networks didn't even want to broadcast it because nobody watched. Okay? Nobody wanted to watch. Now, they have 25 million people, 24 million people, 23 million people and 16 million people. I mean, give me a break. So somebody said, How did they get there? And actually Variety and Hollywood Reporter, who do report this stuff pretty well, much better than the political press, they said solely for one reason, it was Trump. I'll take the credit. But I'll tell you what I also want. I think that Wounded Warriors and our veterans should be given some of the enormous profits being made on these debates, enormous profits, by the way beyond anything they've ever envisioned. CNN was going to get $2000 for a 30 second ad. They ended up getting $250000. So they went from $2000 to $250000 for a 30 second ad. The networks and the cable are making a fortune, and I think they should give some of the profits to the Wounded Warriors and the veterans. That's what I want. I'm giving them away. I'm giving the profits of my book, I'm giving them away to a lot of different, including the vets. I have been amazing with respect to the hiring of women. This building was built as the head person who was fantastic by a woman and that was at a time when you didn't see that in the construction trades. I mean, it was totally unique. I have many, many executives upstairs and in different buildings that I have that are women. Many, a proportion that's close to 50%. Might even be over 50% if I analyze it. And they get paid a lot of money, in many cases more than men doing the same job. So women have always appreciated that about me. I've been in terms of employment really a standout and I've been honored for doing so well with women. What Jeb Bush was saying at the last debate? I don't know. But he didn't say it well. I like Telemundo by the way. I like it better than Univision. I'm suing Univision for $500 million. Because the country is doing so poorly. It's a very accurate title because the country is doing so poorly. That's good. They're going to have some demonstrations. Oh, good because it'll get even higher ratings if they do that. I think it's fine. I think they should demonstrate. Ratings will go even higher than they are going to be. It's going to be one of the highest rated shows ever. And they're very excited about it. And I have a great relationship, as you know from Telemundo, with the Hispanics. You've treated me actually very fairly. Won the poll recently in Nevada. Won other polls. And in Nevada, I think I got 37% and leading everybody. So I have a great relationship with the Hispanics. I have working for me thousands right now, thousands of Hispanics. I've had tens of thousands of people over the year working for me. I'm a job machine. I'm a job machine. And one of the things that does come out in every single poll and every single survey is that nobody for the economy nobody is even close. I'm two, three, and you see that, two, three, four, five times greater than anybody else. And you'd almost say like it's about the jobs, it's about the economy. Then how's anybody going to beat Trump in all fairness? But I've had a great relationship with the workers. I've had a great relationship with jobs. And I've had an amazing relationship with the Hispanics. And I predict that I'm going to win the Hispanic vote. I think I'm going to win the Hispanic vote. I predict, yeah, I think I'm going to get the nomination and I will win the White House. I think beating Hillary Clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad. That's the question I like. How am I preparing for my SNL? Well, I'm meeting with Lorne Michaels in a little while. Afterwards, we're going to sign, I guess got thousands of people on line but we're going to sign and then later on this evening I'm meeting with Lorne Michaels and the whole staff and we'll start the preparation. We'll pick our skits. Am I nervous? Not too nervous. Not too nervous. But we're going to do a good job and we're going have a fantastic show. We're all going to have a lot of fun. My Jeb impression? No, I don't want to do that. I don't like showing a person sleeping at the podium. Tom is asking Can Jeb make a comeback? I think it's going to be very hard. Very hard. Not about money. I just think, you know, I came up with the energy. And I just think we need tremendous energy because we need a person that has tremendous personal energy to get us back on track. You can't do that when you don't have that. I think Marco is highly overrated. Highly overrated. He doesn't have it and all you have to do is look at his stance on things. Jeb, he lacks the quality that you need. We're talking about everybody in the world is ripping us off. You need a very strong person with tremendous energy. Thank you very much folks, I'll take the job. But and it's so important. And by the way, Ben Carson does not have that energy. We need somebody with tremendous energy to straighten out the military, to straighten out ISIS, to straighten out our horrible trade deals, to terminate Obamacare and come up with something far better for far less money. You need somebody with tremendous personal energy as President. We have a president right now that doesn't have energy. I mean, you think Obama has energy? He has no energy. And he's been a horrible president. We need somebody with great personal energy as a leader so that we can make great deals with other countries and do well in every other respect. And certainly Jeb does not have that energy in my opinion. Well, we just went over that. Honestly, we just went over that. And it's only going to make it harder. You're going to see what we're going to do. You're going to see. But the whole thing with anchor babies, I turned out to be right. A person has a baby, lives in Mexico or lives in Asia or lives in many different place, has a baby, walks across the border, has the baby here. Now, we're responsible for that person for the next 85 years. I don't think so. And by the way, I was right, they were wrong. The 14th Amendment does not give them clearance on that. And if you wanted to do that in Mexico or if you wanted to do that in almost any other country where you have a baby in that country and that country has that person for 85 years including all of the costs of that person, they would laugh you right out of the country. You would be laughed out of the country so fast. So, that turned out, I was 100% right. We'll have to worry about that. We're going to take care of it, and it's going to be done in a very humane way. But we're going to bring back our country and we're going to have a wall and Mexico's going to pay for the wall and you know why they're going to pay? And I have great relationships with Mexico and phenomenal relationships with the Mexican people. Phenomenal. And they buy apartments from me; they work for me by the thousands, by the thousands. Phenomenal relationships. But let me just tell you we lose so much money with Mexico in terms of trade imbalance, $45 billion last year. Plus, we give Mexico billions and billions of dollars. They will pay for the wall. And it will be very interesting. And you know what? People are going to come into this country but they're going to come in legally. A lot of European countries are going to build walls to stop the immigration. Well, walls work. All you have to do is ask Israel. Walls work if it's properly constructed. Not the walls that these characters, these politicians that we have running our country who are a disgrace, all talk, no action politicians, they build a wall this big, they drive cars right through it. Walls work. All you have to do is go and see Israel. They will tell you that walls work. We need pomp and circumstance. Our country has no spirit. Our country has no gravitas. Our country doesn't feel good about itself. And the primary reason is we have no victories. I mean, where have we had a victory? Where have we had a victory in trade? Where have we had a victory as an example this horrible deal that was signed with Iran where we've given them $150 billion and we lose everything. We lose everything. It's a laughing stock. Worst deal. Worst contract I've ever seen drawn. We have no victories. And I do write about it. We need some pomp and circumstance. We need spirit. We need a cheerleader. I thought seven years ago when Obama got elected, the one thing I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. He's not. He's been a great divider for the country. He's been one of the great dividers of all time. I'm not saying dress. It has nothing to do with dress. It has to do with the fact that what he says is very divisive. He has been a great divider for this country, and that should not have happened. I'll go anyway they want. I don't care too much about the debates. Look, I'm the one that gets all the nasty questions anyway. Nobody else gets the really nasty questions. In a certain way, maybe they're defending me although I will tell you they're not doing it for that reason. I think it's irrelevant. I just, I like the debates. I've had the debates. I've done well in the debates. As you know, every single poll said I won all three debates. Now, I don't know if I did or not but I certainly didn't do badly. But every single poll says, even CNBC's poll said I won the debate. So I like the debates. I think they're good for me. But we have to be treated a little bit fairly. As an example, Hillary Clinton, no tough questions. I mean, why didn't they ask about Bill? Why didn't they ask about all of the different things. No tough questions. Now, that was staged by the Democrats. And frankly, they did a very smart thing in the way they staged it. Well, we're going to stage something properly also. But as far as I'm concerned, I really don't care that much. I just want a debate. I think debating is a good thing. It's healthy. Gets everything into the open. But you don't want people like Harwood that read a question, blah, blah, blah, that he wrote, that he carefully wrote. He thought he was such, his career, in my opinion, his career is probably ruined or certainly threatened. He could ask about anything you want. I mean, you have to ask about anything you want. Hillary had only softballs. All night long. It was like this, Here, Hillary, hit this one out of the park. Are you from Russia? All right. I think our relationship with Russia will be very good. Vladimir Putin was on 60 Minutes with me three weeks ago. Right? Putin. And they have one of the highest ratings they've had in a long time. So I'm going to give him total credit. But we will have a very good relationship I think with Russia. Now, maybe we won't. But I believe we will have a very good relationship with Russia. I believe that I will have a very good relationship with Putin. Well, I think there are a lot of economic issues. We didn't talk about trade. We didn't talk about devaluations. Right? We didn't talk about corporate inversions, which by the way, none of the other candidates, they don't even know what it means. But we didn't talk about corporate inversions where companies are leaving our country, massive companies, because they can't get their money back and because they get lower taxes elsewhere. So they're leaving and they're taking their jobs with them. The corporate inversion syndrome is a very important thing to be talking about. These were all things that weren't talked about at the debate. Instead, they talked about fantasy football. I mean, it was a big question, fantasy football. I'm saying what about corporate inversions? $2 trillion at least. I think it's probably twice that number is in other countries wanting to come back and because our system is so corrupt and terrible, they can't get the money back to invest in this country. So they don't talk about corporate inversions at the debates. They talk about fantasy football. Those are the few. I was against the war in Iraq. You know, it was very early on. I'll give it to you. Yeah, I have it upstairs Well, you know, you have to understand, I was a developer. A lot of people didn't care about my view in 2003 and 2004. But there was a Reuters article taken from a magazine about my stance in 2004, I believe, in July of 2004 and it talked about my stance on how I felt about Iraq. And I said very strongly exactly what happened. I said you will destabilize the Middle East and when you destabilize the Middle East, Iran will take over Iraq. That's exactly what's happening. And they will take over the oil reserves, which are among the largest in the world, and in addition other bad things will happen. The other bad things are ISIS. I said that in 2004 and that was an article that was taken from a magazine which was previous to that. I've felt that for a long time. Do I think that it's time for some of the other Republicans in the race that registering zero, in a couple of places they have a zero with an arrow pointing left, which I assume is a mistake because that's less than zero. I assume that's not happening. Do I think it's time to have some of the other Republican candidates drop out? Yes. There are too many people. Well, I don't want to get personal but you can look at the poll numbers. Look, if a person is campaigning for four or five months and they're at 0% or 1% or 2%, they should get out. Like, you know, look at me. I go to Florida and look at the numbers that just came out in Florida. 37%? Georgia. I mean, those are real numbers. These numbers that these people have, and I often ask myself. I asked Mark yesterday, What are they doing? Do they do this for their brand? Because I happen to think it's very bad for their brand. I think Scott Walker did a good thing. I think the way Walker, he saw it wasn't happening, wasn't going to happen and he just got out quickly. You know, he was favored. Don't forget. You know. That was before Trump was going to happen. Right? But he was favored for a period of time. Favored. Walker. Gov. Walker. They thought he was going to win. What happened is he got out. I think the way he got out was great. I think he did a really smart thing for himself. And frankly, other people should get out because I would like to personally have more time to talk about the problems of the United States and more importantly how we can solve the problems. So it's a great question. People should get out. Ivanka. Oh, they just said one of the biggest applause lines, it's true, I get is when I talk about my daughter Ivanka. She was just at Fortune Magazine for like something like Woman of the Year which is great. But Ivanka is going to be very involved and Melania is going to be very involved very soon. They're going to be coming out very soon. Oh, Ivanka is going to Iowa. When are you going to Iowa? Very soon. I would say, I don't see threats. I mean, whatever it is I have to do. Mark is saying What are the top threats to your candidacy? Who knows? I mean, you're in the crazy world of politics. People change their minds. I'm going to make America great again. Nobody else is going to be able to do that. I'm going to do it. I'm going to make it in my opinion better than ever before, and I think that's awfully tough to compete with. And one of the reasons that in my book I actually put financials in there, I showed some of the developments that, I have many, many more because you can only, Simon and Schuster, you actually kept me to eight or nine pages. Right? And there are four or five in a page. But I show some of the great developments that I have done that are so successful and so incredible and so financially good, I show my financial statement from a year and a half, two years ago. Now it's even better but we didn't have that certified yet. So I do that not in a braggadocious way. I do that because that's the kind of thinking our country needs right now. We are run by people that are incompetent. We are run by people who in so many words, I hate to use the word stupid but you have to use that word. Unless they have bad intentions which I don't believe they do. But we are run by incompetent people. We have incompetent leadership. There are so many things. Like I mentioned corporate inversion. The Democrats want the money to come back. Who doesn't? The Republicans want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats have said we want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats and the Republicans agree 100%. You have a vast majority. Maybe everybody. For three years. Guess what? They haven't done anything. Right? They can't even get along when they agree. So here's the thing where we can take trillions of dollars, bring it back to this country, rebuild big parts of our country with it, companies can spend that money in our country, we have everybody agrees it should be done for years and they can't do it. That's a part of the problem. No, they all agree. They all agree. They just didn't want to go through the unfair questions because they weren't questions; they were statements. You see, they were asking, they were giving statements in a sarcastic, disgusting way. And by the way, I think Becky is terrific and I think Carl is terrific. But I think John Harwood is not very good at what he does. But I think Becky Quick is a terrific person. I think Carl is a terrific person. But I will tell you John Harwood was a disgrace to CNBC. The question is should the Fed raise rates? They are not raising them because Obama has asked them not to raise them. In my opinion, he wants to get out of office because we are in a bubble and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad things are going to happen or potentially going to happen. And in my opinion, Janet Yellen is highly political and she's not raising rates for a very specific reason because Obama told her not to because he wants to be out playing golf in a year from now and he wants to be doing other things and he doesn't want to see a big bubble burst during his administration. Janet Yellen should have raised the rates. She's not doing it because the Obama administration and the president doesn't want her to. And if she does it, you see what happens every time there's even a thought of raising them just a little bit. And one of the problems that we have is our currency right now is not competitive with other currencies. Because if you look at the devaluations of China, of Japan, of many, many different countries, they're making it impossible for our companies to compete with them because we don't have leaders that know how to say to China, Don't do that. Don't do that. Because if you do that, we're going to put a big fat tax on you. Don't do that. And you know what? If you said that, they wouldn't do it. If you have the right messenger I'm really focused on one very big election, one very important election, and there are some pretty good elections. I'm not watching any of them in particular. I'll be watching them on Tuesday night. But I'll be out there; we'll be out voting. But the election that I'm watching is the election for the presidency of the United States. That is going to be in my opinion this will be truly one of the most important elections we've ever had in this country. We're so far behind. And we cannot go another four years with incompetent leadership. That's a good question. Okay. So, Simon and Schuster came up to me. They wanted to do a book. They wanted to do on success and how do you do this and how do you build it and that's what the book is largely about but we talked so much about the country. And I said, I'll do it but we have to talk about the country. What happened is they sent this incredible photographer up to do a book cover, do to a picture. And he did some greatphotos. I'm smiling. I'm happy. I look good. Everything was fine. And then he took one where I wasn't like really thinking about a photo and then it turned out to be a nasty picture. And then the book was written and the title was given and the only really terrible picture I had was that one. It's a terrible, horrible, nasty picture. But when you're talking about Crippled America and you're talking about all of the problems we have, I can't have a big smiley face up there. So that's how we picked it. We picked the worst photo taken of me. I would have loved to have a beautiful smiling picture but somehow that doesn't go with the title of the book or frankly the content of the book, and actually Simon and Schuster agreed with me. Okay? Are the other Republicans afraid to debate? Well, some of them should be. Autism has become an epidemic. 25 years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics. Not even close. It has gotten totally out of control. I am totally in favor of vaccines but I want smaller doses over a longer period of time. Because you take a baby in, and I've seen it and I've seen it and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time, same exact amount. But you take this little beautiful baby and you pump, I mean, it looks just like it's meant for a horse not for a child. And we've had so many instances, people that work for me just the other day, two years old, two and a half years old, a child, a beautiful child, went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic. I only say, I'm in favor of vaccines. Do them over a longer period of time. Same amount but just in little sections. And I think you're going to have, I think you're going to see a big impact on autism. Speaking for myself, I'm okay with it. I think there's a certain, I know people that frankly there's no impact on their life whatsoever. There are many people. I would almost say leave it up to them. But I would be willing to check it off and say I will not get Social Security As a policy, I would almost leave it up to the people. Don't forget, they pay in and they pay in and maybe do well and maybe some people want it. But the fact is that there are people that truly don't need it and there are many people that do need it very, very badly. And I would be willing to write mine off 100%. If I become President, we will do something really special. We will make this country greater than ever before. We'll have more jobs. We'll have more of everything. We were discussing disease. We were discussing all sorts of things tonight, many of which will just be words. It'll just pass on. I don't want to say politicians all talk, no action, but a lot of what we talked about is words and it'll be forgotten very quickly. If I'm President, many of the things that we discussed tonight will not be forgotten. We'll find solutions and the world will respect us. They will respect us like never before. And it will actually be a friendlier world. And I have to say it's a great honor to be here tonight. I understand and I'm meeting with people that are terrific people. But I have to say something because it's about judgment. I am the only person on this dais, the only person, that fought very, very hard against us, and I wasn't a sitting politician, going into Iraq. Because I said going into Iraq, that was in 2003, you can check it out. I'll give you 25 different stories. In fact, a delegation was sent to my office this evening because I was so vocal about it. I'm a very militaristic person but you have to know when to use the military. I'm the only person up here that fought against going into Iraq. I would like and I think it's very important, I think it's important because it's about judgment. It's about judgment. I didn't want to go into Iraq and I fought it because what I said is you're going to destabilize the Middle East and that's what happened. Well, I heard Hugh Hewitt, nice man, he apologized because he actually said that we had a misunderstanding and he said today that Donald Trump is maybe the best interview there is anywhere that he's ever done. Now or unless he was just saying that on CNN to be nice but he did say that. And we had a legitimate misunderstanding in terms of his pronunciation of a word. But I would say, well, I think it was. And he actually said that. Did you say that? Okay, so I will say this though you was giving me name after name, Arab name, Arab name, Arab name, and there are few people anywhere, anywhere that would have known those names. I think he was reading them off a sheet. And frankly I will have and I told him I will have the finest team that anybody's put together and we will solve a lot of problems. You know, right now, they know a lot and look at what's happening. The world is blowing up around us. We will have great teams and great people. You have to understand I am not sitting in the United States Senate with by the way the worst voting record there is today. Number one, I am not sitting in the United States Senate. I'm a businessman doing business transactions. I will know more about this and as you've said that was very acceptable, and when you listen to that whole interview it was a great interview. You said it; I didn't. I will know more about the problems of this world by the time I sit, and you look at what's going on in this world right now by people that supposedly know, this world is a mess. Well, I think the thing about the flat tax, I know it very well, that I don't like is if you make $200 million, you're paying 10%, you're paying very little relatively to somebody that's making $50000 a year and has to hire H&amp;R Block to do it because it's so complicated. One thing I'll say to Ben is that we've had a graduated tax system for many years. So it's not a socialistic thing. What I'd like to do is, and I'll be putting it into plan in about two weeks and I think people are going to like it. It's a major reduction in taxes. It's a major reduction for the middle class. The hedge fund guys won't like me as much as they like me right now. I know them all but they'll pay more. I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax and I think it's unfair. I've made over $10 billion. I had a casino company. Caesar's just filed for bankruptcy. Chris will tell you, it's not Chris's fault either. But almost everybody in Atlantic City is either in trouble or I've filed for bankruptcy, Atlantic City is a disaster and I did great in Atlantic City. I knew when to get out. My timing was great and I got a lot of credit for it. Many of the great business people that you know, and Carl Icahn's going to work with me on making great deals to this country, but whether it's Carl or so many others that we read about all the time, they have used the laws of the land Let me just explain. The head of the Yale Business School Jeffrey Sonnenfeld wrote a paper recently. One of the worst tenures for a CEO that he has ever seen ranked one of the top 20 in the history of business. The company is a disaster and continues to be a disaster. They still haven't recovered. In fact, today on the front page of the Wall Street Journal, they fired another 25000 or 30000 people saying we still haven't recovered from the catastrophe. When Carly says the revenues went up that's because she bought Compaq. It was a terrible deal and it really to the destruction of the company. Now, one of the company before that was Lucent. Carly was at Lucent before that, and Lucent turned out to be a catastrophe also. So I only say this: She can't run any of my companies. That I can tell you. Well, first of all, the 14th Amendment says very, very clearly to a lot of great legal scholars, not television scholars but legal scholars that it is wrong. It can be corrected with an act of Congress, probably doesn't even need that. A woman gets pregnant. She's nine months. She walks across the border. She has the baby in the United States and we take care of the baby for 85 years. I don't think so. And by the way, Mexico and almost every other country anywhere in the world doesn't have that. We're the only ones dumb enough, stupid enough to have it. And people, and by the way, this is not just with respect to Mexico. They're coming from Asia to have babies here and all of a sudden, we have to take care of the babies for the life of the baby. The 14th Amendment, it reads properly. You can go and it's probably going to have to check and go through a process of court, probably ends up at the Supreme Court. But there are a lot of legal scholars that say that is not correct. And in my opinion, it makes absolutely no, we're the only country, one of the only countries, we're going to take care of those babies for 70, 75, 80, 90 years. I don't think so. I agree 100% by the way with Carly on the fact that the Democrats do not want to solve this problem for the obvious reasons. They do not. But I believe that a reading of the 14th Amendment allows you to have an interpretation where this is not legal and where it can't be done. I've seen both sides but some of the greatest scholars agree with me without having to go through Congress. But if you do go through Congress, you can absolutely solve the problem. Well, I think it's wonderful and all but I did it a little half heartedly but I do mean it to a large extent. We have a country where to assimilate, you have to speak English. And I think that where he was and the way it came out didn't sound great to me. We have to have assimilation to have a country. We have to have assimilation. I'm not the first one to say this. We have many people over the years for many, many years saying the same thing. This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish. This is a reporter, not a high school kid, by the way. First of all, I want to build a wall, a wall that works. So important and it's a big part part of it. Second of all, we have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside and I think Chris knows that maybe as well as anybody. They go, if I get elected, first day they're gone. Gangs all over the place. Chicago, Baltimore, no matter where you live. We have a country based on laws. I will make sure those laws are adhered to. These are illegal immigrants. I don't think you'd even be asking this question if I didn't run. Because when I ran and I brought this up at my opening marks at Trump Tower, I took heat like nobody has taken heat in a long time. And then they found out with the killing of Kate from San Francisco and so many other crimes, they found that I was right. And most people, many people apologized to me. I don't think you'd even be talking about illegal immigration if it weren't for me. So, we have a country of laws. They're going to go out and they'll come back if they deserve to come back. If they've had a bad record, if they've been arrested, if they've been in jail, they're never coming back. We're going to have a country again. Right now we don't have a country, we don't have a border, and we're going to do something about it and it can be done with proper management and it can be done with heart. I think it's a terrible statement. I think it's going to haunt him absolutely. He came back later he said he misspoke. There was no question because I heard when he said the statement I was watching and he said the statement and I said Wow, I can't believe it. I will take care of women. I respect women. I will take care of women. One thing we will say and I would like to get back to the Iran situation. We're talking about Iran. The agreement was terrible. It was incompetent. I'd never seen anything like it. One of the worst contracts of any kind I've ever seen. And nobody ever mentions North Korea where you have this maniac sitting there and he actually has nuclear weapons. And somebody better start thinking about North Korea and perhaps a couple of other places but certainly North Korea. We're talking about Iran. They're bad actors. Bad things are going to happen. But in the meantime you have somebody right now in North Korea who's got nuclear weapons and who is saying almost every other week, I'm ready to use them and we don't even mention them. Number one, I wouldn't have drawn the line but once he drew it, he had no choice but to go across. They do bear some responsibility but I think he'd probably didn't do it not for that reason. Somehow he just doesn't have courage. There's something missing from our president. Had he crossed the line and really gone in with force and had done something to Assad, if he had gone in there with tremendous force, you wouldn't have millions of people displaced all over the world. I think they had a responsibility. Absolutely. I think we have three of them here. I think they had a responsibility. So, number one, they have to respect you. He has absolutely no respect for President Obama. Zero. Syria is a mess. You look at what's going on with ISIS in there. Now, look at this. We're fighting ISIS. ISIS wants to fight Syria. Why are we fighting ISIS in Syria? Let them fight each other and pick up the remnants. I would talk to him. I would get along with him. I believe, and I maybe wrong in which case I'd probably have to take a different path, but I would get along with a lot of the world leaders that this country is not getting along with. We don't get along with China. We don't get along with the heads of Mexico. We don't get along with anybody and yet at the same time they rip us left and right. They take advantage of us economically and in every other way. We get along with nobody. I would get along I think with Putin and I would get along with others. And we will have a much more stable, stable, world. I believe that I will get along, we will do between that, Ukraine, all of the other problems. We won't have the kind of problems that our country has right now with Russia and many other nations. Well, first of all, Rand Paul shouldn't even be on this stage. He's number 11. He's got 1% in the polls. And how he got up here, there's far too many people anyway. As far as temperament and we all know that. As far as temperament, I think I have a great temperament. I've built a phenomenal business with incredible iconic assets, one of the really truly great real estate businesses. And I may be an entertainer because I've had tremendous success with number one best sellers all over the place with the Apprentice and everything else I've done. But I will tell you this what I am far and away greater than an entertainer is a businessman and that's the kind of mindset that this country needs to bring it back. Because we owe $19 trillion right now. $19 trillion. And you need this kind of thinking to bring our country back. And believe me, my temperament is very good, very calm. But we will be respected outside of this country. We are not respected now. I've actually been in politics all my life although I've been on that side as opposed to this side. I've now a politician for about three months. Obviously I'm doing pretty well. I'm number one in every poll by a lot. But the qualification is that I've dealt with people all over the world, been successful all over the world. Everything I've done virtually has been a tremendous success. When markets changed, when things turned, I heard Gov. Pataki who by the way was a failed governor in New York. A very seriously failure. He wouldn't be elected dog catcher right now. I heard what he had to say and I will tell you this: Atlantic City, I made a tremendous amount of money in Atlantic City. I left seven years ago. I've gotten great credit for my timing. And that's what I'm about. I'm a businessman. Did really well. Really well. And Jeb, what I want to do is to put that ability into this country to make our country rich again. And I can do that and I'm not sure that anybody else in the group will be able to do that. I'm Donald Trump. I wrote the Art of the Deal. I say not in a braggadocious way I've made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all of the world. And I want to put whatever that talent is to work for this country so we have great trade deals, we make our country rich again, we make it great again, we build up our military, we take care of our vets, we get rid of Obamacare, and we have a great life all together. Thank you. Boy, oh, boy. I didn't expect that. You know, Joe Arends and the group called and they said Would you come over and speak? I'm here for a certain reason. You know, it's called tomorrow night. So I got here and they asked a couple of days ago if it would possible to come over and say a few words. An endorsement from your group with so many veterans, hundreds of thousands of veterans, I really appreciate that, Joe. I did not expect that. I didn't expect it. I didn't ask for it. I will say this: I am with the veterans 100%. They're our greatest people. They're being treated terribly. Not only the number of deaths, which are obviously, that's what's going on is incredible. But as of two weeks ago on Wednesday, the vets had the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. You go in to see a doctor, you wait for days, for days. And it's not going to happen. Not going to happen. If I win, believe me, it's not going to happen. And one of the things I thought I'd do and I'd stress so strongly, the veterans hospitals, obviously they have problems. They're not properly run. And when you have to wait long hours and long days and then in some cases have the doctor say I'm sorry. I'm going on vacation, believe me, it doesn't get much worse than that. So we're going to create a whole new system. We're going to take this system apart. And if they're not doing the job, the veterans are going to go to private doctors, private hospitals, public hospitals, and we're going to reimburse those doctors and those hospitals. And you're going to get the greatest service of any veterans in any country because you deserve it. And that's going to be broken down into something that's going to be very special. Right now, and you know it, we have illegal immigrants that are treated better by far than our veterans. It's not going to happen anymore. It's not going to happen. So, Joe, I just really appreciate it. So unexpected. To be here is an honor. They don't build ships like this anymore, folks. You know? We don't do them this way anymore. I actually said what about recommissioning, look at this thing. The largest guns in the world. The most powerful guns. I learned about the Iowa. By the way, Iowa is a great place for a lot of reasons. You know? We have been treated so well in the state of Iowa. It's been incredible. Number one on the polls and we love those people. They're great. So this is a great ship and that's a great state. I just want to say that we're going to come out with some plans in a very short time. We're going to be building up our military. We're going to make our military so big and so strong and so great. And it will be so powerful that I don't think we're going to ever have to use it. Nobody's going to mess with us. That I can tell you. And we're going to have a President who's respected by Putin, who's respected by Iran. You know, let's talk about for two seconds, let's talk about the Iran deal. Now, Obama and his people call him the Supreme Leader of Iran. Obama talks about the Supreme Leader. Well, I'm not calling him a Supreme Leader. But he said the other day that after this rip off deal is completed, he will never touch, do business with the United States again. We're finished with the United States. They're taking $150 billion. They're getting a deal that's going to go right into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think. They're going to self police, think about that one, they are going to go and self police. They've got the 24 day, they have 24 day provisions. And by the way, what people don't understand, the 24 day provision doesn't start, you know this, right? It doesn't start for a long time before you even get to it. The clock is ticking. It can take forever. We may never get it there. It is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts I've ever seen of any kind. So, we are going to do things and this country right. We're not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and there's still there and we don't even ask for them. One of them is there because he's a Christian. We have a writer. We have, the whole thing is absolutely insane. You know, they asked the President, and they asked Secretary of State Kerry who maybe, you know, I've been saying Hillary Clinton is the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. Right? All right. I've been saying it. But it's possible, the world blew up around her. It blew up. Just blew up. The whole world is like a different place. It's possible that because of this deal made by Secretary Kerry who has absolutely no clue how to negotiate, it may that he's going to supersede. And I understand that he may want to run for President. He has no chance like she has no chance. So we're going to see what happens. We have many problems in our country. One of them is immigration. Now, I took a tremendous hit when I brought up illegal immigration when I announced I was running for President. And for two weeks, I said, you know, Rush Limbaugh, he's a great guy, he said He has suffered more incoming, meaning the press, than anybody I've seen. So what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about and I am so happy that I'm the one that brought it to the fore because believe me, it's a big problem. It is a big problem. So you remember for about two weeks, I said, Boy this is tougher than I thought running for President. And then you found out there's tremendous crime. There's tremendous drugs pouring across the border. Tremendous. Beyond. Going to Chicago, going to New York, going to LA, going all over our country. So the drugs pour in and the money pours out. Not a good deal. We get the drugs, they get the money. The drug cartels are going wild. They cannot believe how stupid our government is. They are making a fortune. The drugs come in. The money goes out daily. And I saw it because I was on the border. I was there. And we saw it. And everybody sees it everyday. And we have the kind of people that can do something about it but we have no leadership. None. None whatsoever. So, we're going to build a wall and Mexico's going to pay for the wall, believe me. You know, a lot of politicians have said Oh, they're not going to pay. They don't know anything about, they never read the Art of the Deal, first of all. So here's the story. So here's the story. I said the other day to one of my people What is the United State's trade deficit with Mexico, Japan, and China? So let's start with China. Almost $400 billion a year. Now, if you have a company where you're losing $400 billion, you've got to do something very fast. We don't. We've been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year frankly for decades. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore. With Japan where their massive ships floating right here and they drop off the cars, right? They drop off thousands and thousands and thousands of cars, millions of cars, and we sell them beef. We sell them beef. And they don't want it because their farmers don't want our beef. They protest and they send it back. All right? It's not going to happen that way anymore. Now, with Mexico, and I love Mexico. I have many, many people, many, many people from Mexico that work with me and they work for me and they buy my apartments. Same with China. I have so many people. They pay me millions and millions. What am I supposed to hate China because they gave me millions of dollars to buy an apartment? I don't think so. I had the largest bank in the world as a tenant. It's from China. Bigger than any bank in this country by many times. They're from China. The problem that we have is that the leaders of Mexico, Japan, and China and every other country that we do business with, they're smarter, more cunning, sharper than our leaders. I love free trade. The concept is great. But you need smart people. I have the smartest people in this country lined up. I know the smartest. I have Carl Icahn. I have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. They're wealthy because they make good deals like me. I make good deals. You know, it's a talent. It's a talent. You can't be a politician. Look, I'm fighting some very nice people. Very nice. Even though I'm leading in the polls. But they're very nice people. But they're never going to do anything with these countries. They're never going to be able to do it. It's an instinct. It's something that's special. They don't have it. Believe me, they don't have it. It's just going to be more of the same. So, we are going to make our country so great. We are going to make it strong. We are going to make it powerful. We're going to rebuild the military. We're going to make it so strong. We are going to take care of our veterans. And in the end, in the end, I want you people to look around and look at each other because this is going to be a special day. The other week, two weeks ago in Mobile, Alabama, 31000 people showed up in a rainy rough day. 31000 people came to see us speak and we're talking about making America great again. Last night in Dallas at the American Airlines Center, 20000 people, the basketball arena of the Mavericks. 20000 people showed up and I want to tell you, it was a love fest. Everybody, think of it, 20000 people, there wasn't one heckler in the whole room. I kept saying, There's got to be one. There was a word, two words that used to be used a lot called silent majority. They stopped using them. The silent majority, believe me, is back and I think we can use it somewhat different. I don't think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because they're not silent. People are not silent. They're disgusted with our incompetent politicians. They're disgusted with the people that are giving our country away. They're disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people and can do the job. They're disgusted when they're allowed people to just walk right in front of them and they're standing there helpless and people just pour into the country. They're disgusted when a woman who's nine months pregnant, walks across the border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the next 85 years. They're disgusted by what's happening to our country. And you're going to look around and you're going to remember who the people are that are here because we're doing something special. This is a movement. We're going to make our country great again. Believe me, we will make our country great again. I love you all. Thank you very much. Thank you very much everybody. It's such an honor. I was called by Sen. Ted Cruz a few days ago and he said, Do you think we can get a really good crowd out here to protest this incompetent deal? And I said, Boy, can we get a crowd. And that was three days ago and look what shows up and I want to thank you. I want to thank you. So, I've been doing deals for a long time. I've been making lots of wonderful deals, great deals. That's what I do. Never, ever, ever in my life have I seen any transaction so incompetently negotiated as our deal with Iran. And I mean, never. Now, Ted and everybody else have gone through all of the details and we can talk about the 24 days, which is ridiculous. We can talk about the $150 billion, which by the way they get even if the deal isn't approved. They get it just for going to the table. We can talk about the fact that we have four wonderful people over there and frankly they're never going to come back with this group. And I'll say this: If I win the presidency, I guarantee you that those four prisoners are back in our country before I even take office. I guarantee that. They will be back before I ever take office because they know that's what has to happen. Okay? They know it. And if they don't know it, I'm telling them right now. So, I have a story that just came out an hour ago and as President Obama calls him very routinely, he calls him the Supreme Leader. Our President is calling the person who is really the boss in Iran Supreme Leader and I look at people shaking their head; they can't believe it. But it just came out a little while ago, he said Israel will not exist in 25 years. Think of that. He just said this. He also said very strongly, very, very strongly that This is the end of our dealings with the United States. We want nothing more to do with them. We're not going to do anything right here. We made this deal. It's a phenomenal deal. We're not going to deal with the United States anymore. And that's what he just said and this was a very short period of time ago. So, they rip us off. They take our money. They make us look like fools. And now they're back to being who they really are. They don't want Israel to survive. They will not let Israel survive with incompetent leadership like we have right now. Israel will not survive. And then when it's all done or they think it's all done, they come out with these unbelievable nasty statements that Israel won't be around in 25 years and that we will have no dealings and we will have no further dealings with the United States. Now, the people that we were negotiating with and were working on the sanctions, with including and as an example Russia who is selling tremendous missiles to Iran. You know that. Ballistic missiles being sold. All of these countries, all of these countries, are going to do business with Iran. They're going to make lots of money and lots of other things with Iran. And we're going to do, and we're going to get nothing. Nothing. We are led by very, very stupid people. Very, very stupid people. We cannot let it continue. We are a country that owes $19 trillion. We lose everywhere. We lose militarily. We can't beat ISIS. Give me a break! We can't beat anybody. Our vets are being treated horribly. It will change. We will have so much winning if I get elected that you may get bored with winning. Believe me. I agree. You'll never get bored of winning. We'd never get bored. We are going to turn this country around. We are going to start winning big league on trade, militarily. We're going to build up our military. We're going to have such a strong military that nobody, nobody, is going to mess with us. We're not going to have to use it. I really, really this tremendous crowd. We are going to make America great again! Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you all for being here. This is some turnout. My great honor. The Chairman just left as you probably know and he's been extremely fair. The RNC has been absolutely terrific over the last two month period. And as you know, that's what I've wanted. I wanted fairness. I don't have to be treated any differently than anybody else. I just wanted fairness from the Republican Party. We're leading in every single poll. A new poll came out today where we're over 30%. We've actually hit numbers as high as 35% and 40%. And frankly, I've felt that the absolute best way to win and to beat the Democrats and very easily I think beat the Democrats no matter who it may be whether it's Hillary or anybody else and I think maybe Hillary is going to have a very hard time frankly with what's happening getting to the starting gate, the best way for the Republicans to win is if I win the nomination and go directly against whoever they happen to put up. And for that reason, I have signed the pledge. So I will be totally pledging my allegiance to the Republican Party and the conservative principles for which it stands and we will go out and we will fight hard and we will win. We will win. And most importantly, we will make our country great again because that's what it's all about. We have to make our country great again. This is a self funded campaign. We have our heart in it. We have our soul in it. I don't need money and I don't want money. And this is going to be a campaign like I think no other. I'm not controlled by lobbyists. I'm not controlled by anybody. I'm controlled by the people of the country in order to make our country great again. Yeah, I got nothing. I really got nothing. The question was what did I get for signing the pledge? Absolutely nothing. Other than the assurance that I would be treated fairly. And I've seen that over the last two months. They really have been very fair. No, I have no intention of changing my mind. Well, I think the big thing that's changed is, and it's been obvious to all, number one, after I announced, we went up like a rocket ship. Nobody thought I was going to run and they said Oh, he won't run and he won't put in his papers. And he wouldn't do all of this. I did that. The papers in terms of the company turned out to be spectacular. It's a great company. I built a great company. And all of the other papers have turned out to be very well received. And I think the thing that's changed is the fact that I went to number one place very quickly after I signed and after I in this building notified everybody that I'd be running for President. So I think the biggest thing is that I went early to number one and the RNC has treated me with great respect. So that was very important. No, I see no circumstances under which I would tear up that pledge. Well, you don't have to be met when you're at 2%. It's one of those things. That's the way life works. And I like Gov. Chris Christie, by the way. Well, the Chairman asked if he could come up. You saw him. He was here a little while ago. And I was greatly honored that he did come up frankly. Well, I think that when you get right down to it, we're a nation that speaks English and I think that while we're in this nation, we should be speaking English. And that's how assimilation takes. And that's how, I mean, whether people like it or not that's how we assimilate and that's how we go on to that next phase and that next stage. And that's how people that don't speak, and I'm not just talking about Spanish; I'm talking about from various parts of the world, that's how they will become successful and do great. So I think it's more appropriate to be speaking English. Well, one of the things I want to do and I feel very strongly it's a country based on borders and our country is based on laws. And when people come into the country illegally, we should not allow that. And this is not from South America. This is not from Mexico. This is from all over the world. When people come illegally, we cannot allow that. And I want people to come legally. I want very much to take care of our border because our southern border is a total mess. That's been proven. And interestingly, a couple of months ago when I announced, I made some very strong statements about the crime and the problems that were happening and I've been proven right. And many of the people in this audience actually have apologized to me, which I very much appreciate. Of course, they haven't done it publicly but these are minor details but someday they will. The fact is that we are a nation that wants and needs borders. We're a nation that wants and needs and is based on laws. And we will make sure that that takes place. With that being said, I want people to come into our country legally. I want to have a big, fat beautiful open door. I want people of great talent to come in for Silicon Valley. I want engineers. I want physicists. I want people with great talent to come into the United States. When people graduate from college, you can be number one in your class at Harvard or number one at Yale or the Wharton School of Finance or Princeton or Stanford. And immediately if you're not a citizen of the United States, you get thrown out of the country. We want those people to stay. We want people of great talent to be in the United States to work here and ultimately to become a citizen. I don't know enough about it to comment on it. Was she jailed? I really don't know much about it. That's absolutely false. I win at golf. I win at golf. That I can tell you. Well, I understand how the system works maybe better than anybody. I understand the political system and I understand also very much a system for coming in for illegal immigrants. Don't forget if I didn't bring up the subject of illegal immigration, you wouldn't be asking the question. Nobody would be even talking about immigration. And immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big factor. Now, a lot of bad things have happened with respect to crime since I brought it up. But if I didn't bring it up, immigration would not even be a subject that we're talking about and it happens to be a very important subject. I have to say this: It can also be a very positive subject because I believe so strongly in immigration and I just, we have to stop illegal immigration and we have to look forward to great immigration done in a legal manner. But if I didn't bring it up, nobody would be talking about it. Well, there is gridlock in Congress right now and that's because there's no leadership at the top. You have to be able to lead. You have to be able to get people into your office. You have to get people go to them. Any way you want to do it. But you have to be able to lead. There is no leadership at the top. Signing executive orders it not the way our country was supposed to be run. I don't want to talk about that. It's inappropriate. Tom Brady? Well, Tom Brady is a very good friend of mine. He's a great guy. For those of you who don't know him, he's a very honorable and an honest guy and a truly great athlete. He is really a very good friend of mine. And I just spoke to him a little while ago. He's so thrilled and so happy. Tom Brady, I think what they've done is terrible. And he's been exonerated as I understand it because I just heard about it. But I'm very happy for Tom. As far as the Commissioner is concerned, they're having a rough year. Let's face it. They're having a very rough year. Well, in Europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming. And it's a huge humanitarian problem. And I just say this. This United States has tremendous problems of their own. We have infrastructure that we have to fix. We have bridges and roads and tunnels and everything is falling apart. Our nation's in such trouble. That's why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder I think will greatly help. But we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall, which we will get built, including all of the things we have, health care, which is a mess. You know, if you look at Obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. People are saying This is turning out to be a disaster. Deductibles are through the roof. The deductibles on Obamacare it's through the roof. So we have a lot of problems. We have to take care of our vets. We have to build up our military. Just the other day, Gen. Ray Ordierno said that the Army is in the worst shape in its history in terms of preparedness. Now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating us, and you look at Hillary Clinton, and I've said she's the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. Now, in all fairness, because of the agreement that's about to be finalized with Iran, John Kerry may very well take her place. I think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for Israel, for the Middle East. It's going to lead to nuclear proliferation, the 24 day clause, everything about it. We don't even get our prisoners back. You say who negotiates a thing like that? That won't happen, I can guarantee you, with a President Trump. You'll see it later. Yeah. They don't want to hear it. I would say very simply I just want to be treated like everybody else. You see, I was always the fair hair boy. I was a big contributor. Nobody knows the system. But I was on the other side. And I was the elite. I was the fair hair person. Once I ran, all of a sudden I was a little bit of an outsider. I became an outsider because I was running. Because I wasn't supposed to run. I'm this businessman that people have given me great credit as being a great businessman. But I'm not supposed to be running for office. The fact is that our country is being killed on trade by China, by Japan, by Mexico both at the border and on trade. And I'm not knocking those countries. Their leaders are much, much smarter than our leaders. They are absolutely killing us. China, taking our jobs, taking our money, taking our base. And think of this: We owe China $1 trillion and we're paying them interest. We owe Japan with all of the cars coming in the same amount, $1 trillion. Now, that's like a magic act. They send the cars in, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. That's not going to happen with me. Well, Jeb Bush is a very nice man. I'll be honest. I think he's a very nice person. I think he's a very low energy person and I don't think that's what the country needs. I hear he's going to spend a lot of money on negative ads on me. And honestly, look, he's getting the money from special interests. He's getting the money from lobbyists and his donors. And they're making him do it because he's crashing in the polls. So I don't know what's going to happen if he spends $20 million or $25 million on negative ads, I don't know. I know that my life will continue. I just don't know. I mean nobody's ever spent money on ads against me. But he probably has to do that although it would not be the way I've done. You know, one of the things I'm most honored about is that so far everybody that's attacked me has gone down the tubes. You have Lindsey Graham attacked me. He was at 3%. Now he's at zero. You have Perry attacked me. Now he's getting out of the race. He was at 4% or 5%. Now he's getting out of the race. He was at zero. Everybody, Rand Paul attacked me. I see the last poll, the Monmouth poll that just came out today where I'm leading by double figures and Rand Paul is down to less than 2% and he attacked me. Now, Jeb Bush also just went down in the Monmouth poll very big. So I don't know. Are they going to spend, he's going to spend lobbyist money and special interest money. Remember this, they have total control over Jeb and Hillary and everybody else that takes that money. Nobody knows the system better than me. They have total control. You understand it very well because you've been covering it for a long time. Those people that are putting up those millions of dollars have total control over your candidate. I will tell you this: Nobody's putting up millions of dollars for me. I'm putting up my own money. In fact, I feel a little bit foolish. People are offering me millions and millions of dollars. You know, when you're in first place, you can collect so much money and I keep turning them down. I feel like, am I a fool? I feel very foolish. And when I was in Iowa last week, I said What do you think? Can I take, One man offered me, a big lobbyist, offered $5 million for my campaign. I said to the crowd in Iowa, great crowd, 4000 people, I said Can I take it? And would you believe I'm not going to do anything? I promise you. I swear to you I won't do anything. And they all stood up and said No, no, don't take it. The fact is I'm the only self funder. I'm putting up my own money. I know there have been some super PACs, 5 or 6 super PACs, where people are forming super PACs for Trump. I have nothing to do with them. As you know, you're not allowed to have anything to do with them. So I don't know what they're going to do. Hopefully, if they're going to do something it's going to be nice. But I don't know anything about them. But just in a nutshell, I'm funding my own campaign. Nobody else's. When people advertise, and I hope the voters can see this. Every negative ad they see about me is paid for by lobbyists and special interests. So just remember that. Our country could be doing much better. We have deficits that are enormous. We have all bad trade agreements. We have an Army that the heads said is not prepared. We have a military that needs help and especially in these times. We have nuclear weapons that you look at 60 Minutes they don't even work. Okay? If anybody saw that report. The phones don't work. They're 40 years old. They have wires that are no good. Nothing works. Our country doesn't work. Everybody wins except us. We need victories in this country. We don't have victories any more. Our country will be great again, but right now our country has major problems. I think it's great that Carly Fiorina in the debate. I was in favor of her being, I think she should be in the debate. I don't like the fact that there are 11 people now as I understand it. They're not getting rid of Rand Paul or somebody. But I think they should because there's too many people. Because when you have 11, you're not getting to hear me and you're not getting to hear other people talking and I think that's too bad. I think 11 is a lot of people. But I was very happy that she got into the debate because frankly she deserves to be in the debate. I think maybe Joe Biden inclined not to get in the race. I think it's going to depend on what happens with Hillary Clinton. A lot of people think that she will not be able to make it legally from a criminal standpoint to the starting gate. I don't know that to be true. But I think it depends on what happens with her. I think if she gets out, he will get in. I think if she stays in, he might not. Who knows? Oh, he's not supposed to be here because he was here, he was up in my office and he got the pledge and we're very happy about that. We don't want anything, and I told him. I said, I don't know if it's appropriate Reince for you to be here because I don't want anything, You know, you guys will end up saying he's endorsing Trump. So I suggested frankly that I'm fine with him not being here because I don't want anybody to think he's endorsing. As far as Jeb is concerned, I watched him this morning on television and it's a little bit sad. Don't forget. He was supposed to win. And he just doesn't have the energy. But what he does have is a lot of money that was given to him again by special interests, donors, and lobbyists. And I just hope that if he spends money on ads, which he may not, if I were him, I'd spend money on positive ads about himself. Because if he knocks me, assuming people leave and maybe they're at a point where they're not going to leave because they're fed up with what's happening in this country, but I think they're going to go to people other than Jeb. I don't know. Right now, I'm interested in jobs. One thing, one of the groups, it was actually CNN. I shouldn't say that. But they did a very massive poll and I came out number one in leadership, number one on the economy, number one in jobs producing. And I don't mean by number one. I mean like number one by many, many times. And I am so intent on putting people back to work in this country. You know, we have 93 million people that are not in the workforce right now. 93 million. When they give up looking for a job, they take them off of the stats. They take them off the statistics. We have 93 million people. We have 50 million people between poverty levels and welfare and all. Our country can be great again. We have to put people back to work. Would I bring my children into the administration? I will tell you they are very capable. The answer is probably not. But having them in would be very good. They're very, very capable children. The second part I won't bother asking you. It's no longer pertinent. Kanye West? You know what? I'll never say bad about him. You know why? Because he loves Trump. He loves Trump. He goes around saying Trump is my all time hero. He says it to everybody. So, Kanye West, I love him. Now, maybe in a few years I'll have to run against him. I don't know. So I'll take that back. But he's been so nice to me. You people have sort of seen because I've been a counter puncher. I only hit people when they hit me. Only. And Kanye West has been so great. I would never say bad about him because he says such nice things about me. No, my supporters are really supporting me because I'm very competent, because they know that I'm not going to let China rip us off. I'm not going to let Japan rip us off. Japan is devaluing their yen. Very hard for Caterpillar and other companies to compete against Komatsu, their big tractor maker, and others. We're not going to let this happen anymore. They do, you talk about a trade imbalance. They have in Japan the biggest ships you've ever seen pouring cars into Los Angeles, pouring them in. I've never seen anything like it. We send them beef and they don't even want it. It's going to end and they're going to like us. In this building, I have the largest bank in the world. Right up these elevators. It's a bank from China. By far the biggest bank in the world. I get along great with China. I get along great with Japan. I get along great with Mexico. I love the people. I love the people of Mexico. I love the Hispanics. I have thousands of Hispanics right now working for me. Over the years, I have employed tens of thousands of Hispanics, many from Mexico. I have unbelievably great relationships. And in the package that we gave you, you'll see there's a poll and I'm number one with Hispanics. You saw that. Number one with Hispanics. So, look, for our country to be great, we have to be able to make great deals. We're going to be great to the vets. We're going to be terrific. Our military is going to be unbelievable. All of these things, we're going to get rid of Obamacare and come up with something that's much better and much less expensive. We're going to get rid of it. We're going to repeal it. It's going to be out. Should have been out a long time ago. Should have never happened. But we are going to take care of our country and we are going to bring back jobs and we're going to bring back wealth to the United States so we can afford to save Social Security, which I'll save without cuts, so that we can afford to do the kind of things that we have to do to make America great again. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. And here is your pledge. You know it's a bubble waiting to explode, and I've been saying that for a long time. I've been saying what they're doing in China is a bubble waiting to explode. And just remember something, when it's a bubblewe can't be brought down by that bubble. They've done things that caused it. We can't be brought down by that bubble. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to tell you a story about Nashville. You're not even going to believe it. But it's a very personal story. It's a very special place to me for a very special reason. But maybe more importantly, we have an incredible woman with us. She's 92 years old. We don't talk about age but she's 92. And she looks magnificent. And her name is Beada and she's become very famous. You know who Beada is, right? Beada, where are you Beada? Look at her. So beautiful. So, she just registered to vote for the first time in her life. She hasn't seen anybody that really did it to her. And for the first time in her life she just registered to vote and she's going to vote for Trump. I think, right? Thank you, darling. I really appreciate it. You know, she's become so famous. She's on television all over the world now. I have to be nervous even talking to her, you're so famous. It's great. Beada, thank you very much. I really appreciate it and everybody appreciates it. Because there is a big, big growing like leaps and bounds silent majority out there and we're going to take this country back and we're going to make this country so great again and so strong again. Well, I just want to tell you about Nashville. So, years ago, many years ago, like I hate to say 40 but I won't say 40 but close to 40, I came to Nashville. Did you ever hear of a company called Genesco? Genesco. Right? So, they were based in Nashville, Tennessee, and they owned the Bonwit Teller department store chain. And I was a young guy and I came from Brooklyn in Queens, and I wanted to go into Manhattan. And I went into Manhattan and I did the Grand Hyatt Hotel and I did some other things that were good. But the thing I wanted more than anything was Fifth Avenue between 57th and 56th Street, which is called the Tiffany Location right next to Tiffany. And that's what I wanted. I wanted that piece of property so badly. I shouldn't say that because you're not supposed to want things like that so badly. God will get angry at me, right? But I wanted it so badly and the company that owned it was Genesco based in Nashville, Tennessee. And I came in and I came to Nashville, and I met with the heads of Genesco who were really great people actually. And they were having a lot of difficulties. There were a lot of fighting and a lot of everything. And I convinced them to sell me the land and the building. And I bought the Bonwit Teller store Fifth Avenue from 57th to 56th street surrounding Tiffany. I bought all the air rights and then ultimately I bought the air rights from Tiffany and I built Trump Tower. And to this day it's one of the great buildings of the world and it's one of the great successes. And I love country music and I went to the Grand Ole Opry while I was here. And I just had such an incredible experience. And when it came down to speaking because we could speak at a lot of places, you know, when you're leading in every poll, they sort of want you. When you're not leading in the polls, like so many of these guys, they don't want you at all. And we'll talk about the polls in a second. But I had a lot of choices for this morning, and I guess I could have also gone and played golf like the President does all the time, right? But I decided let's do this. And I really chose Nashville because the experience is one of my, it's not my biggest deal but in terms of a deal it's so important and it's been such a great, from the day I built it it was a home run. And it all really took place because of Nashville, Tennessee. So, I really, it's an honor to be with you folks, I can tell you. Real honor. So, coming over I heard and I watched television, you know, they have all these cameras back there and they're live. And I guess we're live on CNN, we're live on so many different things. It's always difficult. You know, when you're always live, you've got to change up your speech. You can't make the speech over and over The other candidates don't get covered live ever, except for the debate. So you know, they had 24 million people on the debate. Now they think when the new numbers come out they'll be even substantially higher than that. So I would've said they would have had a million or two. So I say they have 24 million people. And I say, well now the second debate, which is on CNN, that was on Fox, maybe I should ask for a lot of money and give the money to charity. Does that make sense? All to charity. All to charity. When I said that to the writers at Time Magazine, they were nice enough to put me on the cover with actually a nice story. And I said, you know, and I sort of thought I said it off the record but they put it in Time Magazine. So now, maybe should I ask for charity, maybe a nice Nashville charity and American Cancer Society and AIDS research, so many of this, there's so many good, Alzheimer's, you know, there's so many things going on. Maybe I should ask for a lot of money or I'm not showing up. You know, it's interesting. So they'll get 2 million, a million to 2 million people at the debates. You know, they've been doing them for a long time. They don't do great, especially the early Republican debate. Like you know the expression, it draws flies? That's what it draws. So this was one of the biggest shows in the history of cable television. I think it might have been the biggest in terms of political in the history of cable television. Naturally I took full credit for it, which in all fairness I should. I should. So bottom line I think I might ask for a lot of money for charity but you know. But I did say is it a little hokey if I do that? Maybe it's not so nice. So what do you think? Should I do it or not? Maybe not. I don't know. Here's the thing. If I don't do it, CNN just makes a lot of money. I don't care about CNN. Honestly. No, they're going to make a lot of money. They just shut off their camera. They're actually very nice. But they're going to make a lot of money and, you know, it's something we should consider. So we'll all consider it together. But coming over today, I saw that they were having the illegal immigrants come in and somebody mentioned the term the DREAMERs having to do with children and, you know, the dreams of children. And these are people who come over to the country and they're DREAMERs. And I said, What about our children? Why can't our children that are in the country, why can't they be the dreamers? Nobody ever talks about that. No, no, nobody ever talks about that. You know, we talk about the DREAMERs, we talk about illegal immigrants, who by the way are treated better than our vets. You know, our vets are incredible. No, no, the illegal immigrants in many casesare treated better than our veterans who are the greatest people we have, our wounded warriors are, these are the greatest people we have. And another thing nice about being able to make speeches without having to hire some guy to write and keep writing and reading it and put a teleprompter then say, Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Nashville, it's wonderful, you know, is that I can sort of be very current. Okay? I can be very, very current. I can talk about what's happening. This morning on the television, they had a whole story about the Veterans Administration and the hospitals how people are waiting on lines to get in. These are our veterans. These are the people that got hurt fighting for us. Maybe we wouldn't be here if it wasn't for them, to be honest with you. I mean, that's possible too. They had a story this morning on Fox, on CNN and a number of them where the veterans are just treated terribly and they showed a desk where there's supposed to be people behind this desk and they showed this desk and there's nobody there. And the veterans, I don't know, probably some of you saw it, the veterans are saying Where are the people? And then, they said, What happened? And they said, This happens all the time. There was not even, nobody even there! And two weeks ago on Wednesday, they had the longest wait in the history, in the history of the Veterans Administration for people wanting to see a doctor. When I go to a doctor, if I have to wait like 9 minutes, I'm like Get me, I'd go crazy. It's true. Remember the old days when the doctor used to come to your house? Right? Beada remembers that. You'd have a cold. The doctor would come over carrying a little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. And he'd come over to your house, check you out, fine. Those days don't exist anymore. You know, we're in age of Obamacare where nothing exists. By the way, we will repeal and replace Obamacare. That I can tell you. That I can tell you. But, so two weeks ago Wednesday, the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. So that if you go to the doctor's office, men and women are waiting four days, three days, one was five days. One case was five days or six days, finally got to see the doctor and the doctor excused himself because he was going on vacation. Now, you think about that. Can you imagine waiting even a day or a half a day? But these people are waiting four, five days. So the wait's now the longest in history and that's the way we're treating our greatest people and that's not right and we're going to change that. We're going to change that. We have right now, and people don't know this. You know, they see these phony statistics put out by politicians basically. All talk, no action politicians. And I mean on both sides in all fairness. You know, I'm a Republican. I'm a conservative. But I'm just as angry with the Republicans because they go to Washington, something happens, they become weak. You know, they go to Washington, We're going to stop Obamacare. We're going to stop this. We're going to do this. We're going to do that. Then they walk into these magnificent buildings with those incredible vaulted ceilings, and they go Oh, I made it, darling, I made it. I vote for you. I vote for you. I vote for Obamacare expansions. I'll do whatever you want me to do. I'm in Washington. It's amazing. Isn't it amazing? Don't you agree? I won't happen to me, I promise. And if it does, you can let me know about it. But it won't. I promise. I promise. But you know, they show those phony statistics where we're 5% unemployment. 5%. The real number. You know, I actually saw a number it could be 42%, okay, believe it or not. But when you think about it, we have 93 million people that are right now out of the labor force. 93 million people. Of the 93 many of these people want jobs. And they quit looking. So if you're looking for a job and you can't find it and you stop for a while, you know, after a while you sort of like It's not happening. It's not going to happen. I don't know what they do. But they stop. They are considered statistically employed. Okay? So, we have 93 million people out of the labor force. I mean, think about it. It's hard to believe. We have 50 million people in poverty. These are very new numbers. 50 million people in poverty. Taking our money. Japan's taking our money. Mexico is beating us at the border and on trade. By the way, they're killing us on trade. You know that. In fact, you just lost a big car plant to Mexico in Tennessee. Remember? Recently front page Wall Street Journal. A plant that you were going to have You know this is a movement, folks. This is not like maybe even about me. I don't want it to be about me. This is about common sense. It's about doing the right thing. One of the things that came out in the poll, which was really amazing. Some of the polls, I mean, hey, in Iowa, we're leading big. Those are great people. We just left Iowa. We had such an amazing evening. 4000 people in a room that never had that many people and it was a happening. We just left Alabama, which was unbelievable. 31000 people in a stadium, and it was supposed to pour. And it did. It poured the minute my speech, that's like luck. That's from God. The minute the speech was over, we got it and it poured. We had 31000 people and it was the most unbelievable. And the poll just came out in Alabama, leading big in Alabama. Leading big in Iowa. Leading tremendously big in New Hampshire. Great people. Leading really big in New Hampshire. Leading big in Florida. How about Florida? I have a governor. We have a low energy governor and we have a Senator and we're leading big in Florida. How do you do that when you have a Senator who's sitting, you have a governor who's been there for eight years and Trump, ? I love Florida and I'm there a lot. What could be in Florida? Great weather. You have great weather but Florida has great weather. Big advantage. But you know, I'm leading big in Florida. But one of the polls came out because in South Carolina and North Carolina, I'm leading really big. And in South Carolina, a poll came out and we had a statement that my level of popularity or favorability, you know, I'm the only one that can get a poll and it comes out and these guys in the back with all those red lights on will say, I think I had one poll where I'm 41%, almost 41%, can you imagine? 41%. There's 17 people. So I'm at 41% with 17 people and they said Trump's at 41% but look, you can't even hear it. You know, Trump says bleh. Nobody knows what they just said. But there are some people that don't like him. It's unbelievable. I'm the only one that wins these polls and I get negative publicity. No, it's incredible. The press, ayeyayay. Well, yesterday, you might have seen me. I was in South Carolina. I made a speech. I had to bring it up. The New York Times to me is a big deal. You know, I'm from New York. Very liberal paper but that's okay. You know, not everybody could be like us. But it's still the New York Times. Right? We have to admit, still the New York Times. And I'm on the front page a lot on the New York Times, and to be on the front page of the New York Times is a big deal. But yesterday or two days ago, they had story about me and they had some low level Hispanic commentator. Low level guy. This one didn't like me. By the way, I think I'm going to win the Hispanic vote and I think, you know, in Nevada, I won the Hispanic poll. They love me. I love the Hispanic people. Incredible energy. Incredible people. I love the people. I have so many, I have thousands that work for me and thousands and thousands over the years and have worked for me. They're great people. And I said, I'm going to win. And a lot of the Hispanics that are here legally, they don't want people coming in illegally. You know it's true. It's true. So there's this poll that comes out. I think it was in South Carolina where we're way up and Lindsey at 4% and he's the Senator. I'm at 30%. So I wrote him a note, Congratulations. I'm only beating you in your home state by 26 points. So anyways, who cares. But they did something that nobody reported. They say, Oh but do people like Trump? By the way, this election is not going to be like. I think I'm a nice person. I love people. I want to help people. Women's health issues to me are very important. To Jeb Bush it wasn't important because he didn't want to fund them. And then he said, Oh, I misspoke. But you know, I really want to be a nice person and I am a nice person. But I think it's actually going to be an election based on competence. We're tired of being like the patsy for everybody. I really do. I think it's time. But in the poll, this was the Monmouth poll. Big poll. In another act of political magic, Trump managed to flip his favorability rating from negative, nobody wrote this by the way. Nobody said it. Nobody reported it. From negative to positive. This is an exact quote. I have like this photographic memory so I don't need, but I want to be sure because if I used the word the incorrectly, they'll say, He didn't, Favorability rating from negative to positive in one poll during the span of a month. A feat that Monmouth University's Patrick Murray's highly respected pollster called astounding. Called it astounding. Nobody else wrote about it. That defies any rule in presidential politics that I've ever seen, said this highly respected man. Murray, the director of the polling institute, said he flipped it from 20% to 52% in one month and he said that he's never seen that before. And you know what? That's because people have heard me and they say You're such a nice person. No, they want, they say he's a man, I've made a tremendous amount of money. I've had tremendous success. And I don't say that braggingly. That's the kind of thinking we need in the country. I mean, whatever it is. But to me, that statement was more important than actually literally killing everybody in the poll. We were much, much higher, more than double everybody. And we are more than double everybody. You saw the Quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. I was the same thing. Much, much higher, double and triple and quadruple many of these candidates. And the reason is people in this country are smart. They don't believe a lot of what they see in the media because if you believe these people, you know, why are they doing this? I mean, why are they even saying it? You'd think that if somebody's good for the country, and I'll be great for the country because I'm going to make great deals for our country. We don't win anymore. Our country doesn't win anymore. You'd think somebody, even a liberal person or a Democrat liberal and I mean, really liberal. Somebody who's going to make the country, why are they knocking it? Why are they knocking? Why do they fight? You'd think they'd say Let's do it. It's good. It's good for all of us. Because our country is in trouble. We owe now $19 trillion. You know, I've been saying $18 trillion for a while now. But now it starts to go up quickly. And by the way, when Obamacare kicks in, which is really kicking in 2016, you want to see bad deficits? You want to see it go up? You're going to really see it go up because that has a huge negative impact not only on jobs but on the deficit itself because of the costs. And it's no good. Have you noticed, and you've seen it yourself, the premiums have gone through the roof? Right? The deductibility, unless you're close to death, you're never going to use it. You can't use it because the deductibility is so high. But the premiums are up 30%, 40%, and 50% and more. It's a disaster. And on top of that, it's going to cost the country a fortune. So it's not only costing you a lot of money, it's going to cost the country a fortune. So we have to do something about it. And we have to do something importantly about it. But when I see the people on television and I have to tell you I won't mention names, some of them when they hear my name, I was talking, we have a great reporter today from the Wall Street Journal with us. Okay? Who came down. And she actually said Some of them when they hear your name it looks like they're a boiler waiting to explode. It's true. Now, number one, they look bad because they said, do you remember the beginning? Like three, four months ago. They said, He's a clown. He's a clown. Just having fun. You know, I went to a great school. I did great. I did, everything was great. I came out. I made a fortune, which I want to use the brain for you, but I made a fortune. I then did a book called The Art of the Deal and many bestsellers. The Art of the Deal being probably the best selling business book of all time. Who has read The Art of the Deal? Yeah, most people. Most everybody. I jokingly say but I mean it, the Bible tops it by a long way. I say that. I say that. Said it the first time in Iowa. People liked that. But it's true. Nothing tops the Bible. But the Art of the Deal, great success. Many books, bestsellers. Many, many bestsellers. Then I do The Apprentice. I've never done television. I do The Apprentice. It's one of the most successful shows ever on television by the way. And NBC renewed the Apprentice. You know that. Right? For me. They came up to my office, the head of Comcast, great guy, I won't use names. Just say Steve. No, honestly he's a great guy. One of the best in the country. He came up with the heads of NBC six months ago and they said, Donald, we're renewing The Apprentice. Please, you'll have to do, you have to do it. I said, Honestly, Steve, I'm running for President. I want to make our country great again. I want to make, And they didn't believe me. And I said it four times. They didn't believe me. Nobody believed that I was going to run. Nobody. My wife didn't even believe me, but now she does. But she actually said If you actually say you're going to run, you're going to do great because people like you. She actually said They'd love you but I don't want to brag. But she said, If you actually run, not you may run, you may not run, who knows? But she said If you actually say, So the NBC guys come up, terrific people. I mean, honestly I had a great relationship with NBC for 12 years. We had many, many, you know number ones and The Apprentice continues to do great. You know, last season you know how well it did. So they wanted to renew it for many, many shows. In fact, Mark Burnett called up. You know Mark Burnett. He did Survivor, Apprentice. So Mark Burnett, who's a great guy, he calls up and he goes I don't believe it. You're not taking a renewal. The word is renewal. I said, That's right, Mark. I'm going to run for President. No, no, no, you have to, nobody doesn't take a renewal. It's unheard of in primetime television. Two hours primetime. Are you crazy? I said, Mark, I have to do this. I've done so well in this country. I have to do it. We can save our country. We can save our country. So anyways, the bottom line, NBC renewed it. I told them I'm not doing it, and then they finally believed me when I actually announced. They don't like me anymore. It's amazing. They do not like me. But it's too bad. Too bad. Well, thank you. You know, the funny thing about The Apprentice, there have been 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every single one of them failed. So then a reporter said to me, Why do you think that is? I said Because I'm special. And I was kidding. I was doing it sarcastically, I mean, I sort of meant it to be honest, right? But I was sort of kidding. And they wrote it and I hated the way it looked in writing. You know, it sounds good when you say it but oh it looks so bad in writing. But so I had a great experience. So here I am, great schools, great brain, great success, built a great company, do The Apprentice, tremendous success. When I did The Apprentice, a certain critic said It will never be successful because you know to have a big hit, a really a number one hit, you have to, and you remember that first season it had one of the highest ratings ever. The finale of The Apprentice? Aye! Remember with the great Bill Rancic. Remember how that was? Incredible. But to have a great success, you have to have women. And I'll never forget, I saved the article. Right? Like Harry Truman saved it where it said, Truman loses and he actually won. Remember? But I saved this article. They said Trump can never succeed on television because why would women want to watch Donald Trump? And I said, Am I so bad? Am I so bad? Tell me, am I so bad? And it turned out that women were the biggest base. I mean, those were the ones that liked. So you know I saved those things. But no matter how you cut it, we can do something so incredible. And honestly, it's going to be hard. It's going to be a lot of work. It's going to be a lot of time. I wouldn't leave the White House. You know, Obama always leaves the White House. Think of it. You're elected President. You're in the White House. Why would you want to leave? I think I'd maybe never leave! How cool is that? He leaves to go to some place and go fundraisers. I'll try, I don't know maybe there's some rules against it. So maybe I can't. But I'll do the fundraisers in the White House. He and his wife left, I think one was doing the Ellen show another was doing another show right next door in Burbank, California. They left a couple of hours difference. One took Air Force One; one took a beautiful Boeing 757. Two planes. A little bit different timing going to the same location, going to the same airport to do different shows. And I say why? Why aren't they flying at least the same plane? Now, I know what those suckers cost because I happen to have one of them right? So I know what it costs to operate these planes. More importantly, the time and the energy. But I would have said Ellen or I would have said whoever was doing the show, Let's do it from the White House. This way, I take a half and hour, I go back, I don't spend any money of the taxpayers. And you know the funny thing is that whoever the host is would like it better. We're doing our show live from the White House or something. So we don't pay any money. We don't have to fuel up Air Force One, which costs you, do you ever see what it costs to travel in these things? With hundreds and hundreds of security and you're closing down Burbank, California. I mean, every time Obama comes to Manhattan to do a fundraiser, which is often, I say What's going on? You can't move. They closed down all the streets. They closed down the city. And he could do it from like Washington. In fact, he could do it in my new hotel that I'm buying which is only a couple of blocks. It's true. I'm building this incredible hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue and it's going to be incredible. The Old Post Office. And I actually got it from the Obama administration, which is hard to believe. People say What's going on? How did Trump get it? One of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration, which owned it. You know, they're the ones that made the decision. And I got it and we're building this phenomenal hotel, Trump International Hotel, right on Pennsylvania Avenue directly between Congress and the White House. Right? It's going to open just in time, and by the way, listen to this one. We're under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government? Way under budget. So we're actually going to be opening and it'll be great. But he can use my hotel. I'll let him use it free. You just come in, use it, go back to the White House. But you don't have to do that. But you'd say to yourself why, you know, it's a mindset. But more importantly even in the travel, we have so many things that we have to do to straighten out our country. You don't want to waste time. You've got to do this. You've got to make deals. I've got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. Carl Icahn, incredible guy. Right? Incredible guy. Great deal maker. I've got some of the greatest deal makers in the world. They're all calling me too. They said You didn't ask me. I have these guys calling me up, the best in the world. Now, I know the best. I also know guys that are overrated. I know guys that you haven't heard of that honestly are phenomenal. I know a lot that you have heard of that aren't really that good, that are overrated in my opinion. But they're the best in the world. And they're calling me. They don't want money. They're worth billions of dollars. But when I put, let's say, Carl Icahn and I'll say Carl, do me a favor. Handle China. We're going to make a great deal. No, no, we're going to make a great deal because that's what happens. You know, that's what happens. So, we're going to take back our trade. If you look at China, if you look at Japan, I was in Los Angeles a few weeks ago. I saw ships, the biggest ships I've ever seen with cars pouring our, pouring out one after another, made in Japan, very nice. Everything's nice. Except that it doesn't help us. When does it help us? When does it help us? We sell them beef. Beef. And then they don't want it. Because you know, do you ever see what's going on over there? We sell the beef and it goes over there and it's very perishable. So by the time it gets over there, then they turn it over We don't want it. They have cars coming from these massive, massive ships. Massive. And they just pour off the ships. And I say, What are we doing? How stupid are we? No tax, no nothing. And I'm a free trader. I believe in free trade. I have to say. But I have to be fair trade. When you look at Japan, they take in money up here and we give them money down here. We get nothing by comparison. It's like peanuts. Balance it out, fellows. Balance it out. Got to balance it. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. As you know, China has, it's probably the greatest theft in the history of the United States what China has done to us. They've taken our money. They've taken our jobs. They've taken everything. They've taken so much. And they're creating a bubble and you know interestingly we're so intertwined that now the bubble could take us down if it explodes, which at some point it might. And we've got to be smart. I made so much money dealing with China. I made hundreds of millions, probably billions, dealing with China. The Bank of America building in San Francisco, I own a big chunk of that, which nobody knows. Nobody knows. You know, all these guys come to Forbes. Oh, Trump's worth only $5 billion or $4 billion. Or whatever. He's only worth $5 billion. It's like a bankrupt magazine. They don't even know my numbers. They said, Well, we haven't been able to look at about 400 of his companies. So I filed. Interestingly, they said He'll never run. He'll never run. Then I announced. Then they said, Oh, he'll never file his form whatever. That's a single page where basically you're signing your life away and it has to be done within 14 days of the announcement. I signed my form. And they said, Well, he'll never ever put in his financials. And you have like 90 days or something. And they said, He'll ask for extensions but he'll never show because he's probably not as rich as people think. But actually I'm much richer and I put in my financials, it's true. It's true. And Forbes and another group said, No, no, we don't know what these companies are. I put in these massive financials, and you know, I was so proud. I might have filed if I wasn't going to run. I wanted to show people. I wanted to brag. It's such a great company I've built. So they said, He'll never put in his financials. I put in the financials. And everybody, they're much bigger. It's a much bigger, you know, very little debt, tremendous value. And really great assets. Iconic assets. You know, iconic. Doral, Turnberry in Scotland. I mean, I have some of the greatest real estates in the world. And I'm very proud of it. But they say, He'll never file. He'll never file. Then they see all these companies. And you know, they have boxes. And because it wasn't really meant for somebody like me, and they have these little boxes. They say, Is it worth or does he make $1 million, from $1 million to $5 million, from $5 million to $10 million, from $10 million to $20 million? The last box is $50 million or more. $50 million or more. So like I have a lot of buildings that are worth much more than that. I have a lot of assets that are worth much more than that. So it says $50 million or more. So I checked many of them. I don't know how many. I think there's 23 of them. Can you believe it? So I checked like, I don't know, I think it's 23. I could be wrong. Oh, they'll kill me if I'm wrong. But I'm not sure. But I think it's like 23 boxes. $50 million or more. So you know when some of these guys do to try and always marginalize you? They added up 23 50s. Now, some of the 50s are worth a billion. Some of them are worth more than a billion. So it says $50 million or more, I go 50. So they'll take $50 million for a building that might be worth a billion and honestly much more. And they add them up and they say Well, he's worth $3 billion. It's really, this is the press. And they have no clue. Those statements aren't really meant for me, it's not meant for a guy like me. But with all of that the statements were so good. They're so good. They're so good. And you know, one of the things I'm doing and last night was incredible. We had an amazing event in Massachusetts. Right? Oh, look at this, we have a wit- what the hell are you doing in Nashville? What are you doing? Anyway, so here I am. I spent millions of dollars during the course on jet fuel. Okay? Like a lot of money on jets. But somebody puts up a sign $100 to go to this thing. I didn't know who did it. But somebody puts up a sign. So all over the place, I'm spending millions of dollars. I'm turning down millions. I don't want your money. I don't want your money. Somebody puts a sign up talking about $100 contribution, which you didn't have to make. But they put it up. It's all over CNN. Trump is asking for $100. I fly my plane some place it costs me a fortune. The fuel. The $100. The money that I raised last night, which says it all it goes towards paying off like the expense or something. The guy that had it is a great guy, Ernie. A great guy. Really successful guy. You know him, right? Ernie. He'll sell you a car any day of the week, right? And you know the guy is, like 2000 people showed up. Let him get a little deferment of the roast beef or whatever the hell they're serving. So they put up a sign. I don't want the money. I might like $4 or $5 million. That's hard to turn down. But the hundred dollars times some people and we let the vets there, we let most of the people I think came in free. And I end up with this big story, Trump accepting contributions. I can't believe it. I got so angry at my people. Because somebody put up a sign saying $100. And honestly, first of all, it's like peanuts. It doesn't mean anything. But they used to it to try and marginalize. They always do. They always do. The bottom line is I am self funding my campaign. I'm self funding. I don't want to have anybody giving. I don't need money. Now, with that being said, the small money comes in and it's not a lot of money but it's great money. Like Beada might send me some money. Beada will send me some money. But a woman sent me $7 with a beautiful letter from Georgia. Another person sent me $12. Small money. And some sent me $1000. But it doesn't amount to a lot. But that I do like coming in because they invest in the campaign. How do I take the $7 check, right, and send it back to the person who sent it to me from Georgia? Dear So and So, I'm sorry I don't really want your money. How do you write a letter like that? I want them to invest in it. You know, but they're not going to tell me not to do this or not to do that for China because they are lobbyists for China and they gave me $5 million. I had a big lobbyist asked me to have, he wanted to give me $5 million for my campaign. I turned him down. I turned him down. And then I see this story on CNN last night. It was disgusting. That look there's a sign, $100! Somebody does a sign. It actually was a beautiful sign if you want to know the truth. It was so beautiful. It was beautifully done. And they're doing this big thing about all day long last night about, I said we had this incredible event and they destroyed it by trying to marginalize. And that's the press. That's the media. Yeah, the criminal media. I mean, there's truth to it. No, because a lot of times they know it's wrong. But I just want to tell you so important to me and last night it was such an incredible event. It had to be a record for a house. The guy got a beautiful house, got a big lawn, put up a tent. But we had 2000 people. It had to be a record. The spirit in that group, the spirit in Alabama, the spirit was so incredible. The spirit in our last meeting in Iowa. Don't forget. When I went to Iowa and you know what I love? I'm leading with Tea Party. Big. I love Tea Party. I love the Tea Party. Tea Party people, stand up and take a bow. You have not been treated fairly. No, you haven't been treated fairly. You have not been treated fairly. You know, people talk about the Tea Party and you talk about marginalizing, at least I have a microphone where I can fight back. You people don't. The Tea Party people are incredible people. These are people that work hard and they love the country and then they just get beat up all the time by the media. It's disgusting. And you will be surprised how big you are. You don't know how big you are. You don't know the power that you have. I mean it. You don't know the power that you have. The Tea Party and you can call it anything that you want. I don't care about names. But the Tea Party has tremendous power. I talked silent majority. But the silent majority is more than Tea Party. It's Democrats. It's poor people. It's rich people. It's everybody. It's evangelicals. One of the things that made me so happy, I'm a protestant. I'm a presbyterian. Right?, is that I had a recent poll and they did a beautiful, like these polls are great. You know, guys like Jeb Bush and Hillary, they hire pollsters. They pay them hundreds of thousands of dollars. What do you have to do that for? Every week they come out with a new poll. Right? Hey, I'm rich. I could hire a hundred poll. I don't want to waste money. You know, why should I pay? I know in one caselike $150000 a month. And you know, then they're arrogant guys. They think they're hot stuff and they tell the candidates what to say. You've got to say this. You've got to be politically correct. No way. I don't have time to be political. No, it's true. It's true. I don't have time to be political. You know, it takes a lot of time to be politically correct. You saw the anchor baby thing. Did you see that with where I'm on? And somebody fromit's the same network, CNN again, he said, You know the name anchor baby is very insulting? I said, What would you call it? And he gave me like nine words. A baby of illegal immigrant who was brought to the country to this and that. I said, How can I say that? It's too long. It's anchor baby. And then Bush, Jeb. Jeb Bush gets caught because he is such a nice person. Honestly. If you want a nice person, honestly you should vote for Jeb. The country is going to go to hell but we won't talk of that. No, no, but if you want a nice person. So Jeb has a memo that he signed of basically a politically correct memo. You know, don't say this, don't say that. All these things. Pages of stuff. But one of the things, Never use the term 'anchor baby'. So all of a sudden, he's using the term anchor baby just last week. And with me, when I use it nobody criticizes me. They expect me. They gave up. Okay? With him, they killed him. They just killed him. It didn't stop. And then he blamed it on the Asians. He said, you know, did you see that? And then the New York Times did an editorial How dare you attack the Asians? So he wanted to steer away from the Hispanics. He said, Well, you know, the Asians come in and they also have anchor babies. And now the Asians all hate him. It's true. But the Asians love me and I love them. I love them. So he has a memo and he signs the memo and it says, a couple of years ago, Don't use this term, and now he's using it because he has to. Because baby, you know, think of it. Think of it. I want to build a wall. Okay? So easy. So easy. When this clown, Jose Reyes or whatever the hell his name, no, he's a baseball player. Ramos. Actually Jose Reyes is a baseball player. He's a nice baseball player. But when Ramos got up the other day screaming and ranting and going crazy and I had all these reporters. Actually, the reporters were mostly on my side because they all had their hand up but this guy starts screaming. So I even had liberal people from CBS, I actually said to the CBS guy Yes? and this guy stands up and starts screaming. So when he, and I actually got a lot of credit for the way we handled him. I didn't do anything like, I didn't do anything. Except for the Times. And that's what I alluded to before. The Times said, Donald Trump railed at him and screamed at him. I didn't scream at him. But he was screaming at me. And much worse than that, they said I wore a toupee. Can you believe it? I don't wear a toupee, and I proved it, I won't bring anybody up. I won't bring anybody up. But I don't. But think of it. I'm in the front page of the New York Times and in the first sentence in the first paragraph has this announcer, this Hispanic announcer that nobody ever heard of, saying they called him something which means he wears a toupee. And I don't. So, I'm on the front page of the New York Times. I can't even talk about it. I'm embarrassed to talk about it. But they also said, I was essentially screaming at this guy from Univision, who I happen to be suing for $500 million. They didn't mention that. They also didn't mention that his daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Did you know that? His daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Oh, you didn't know that. Oh. No, they didn't mention that. No, no. They said I was wearing a toupee and I was screaming but they didn't. No, he's screaming at me. So we very nicely, and then we let him come back and we actually had a nice talk. He actually seemed like a nice guy after he calmed down a little bit. You know, he's a very emotional man. But, he said, You can't build a wall because you can't do it. So, 2000 years ago in China, we always get back to China, 2000 years ago, the Great Wall of China, oh, we'd like to have a wall. This is a serious wall. Okay? This is a wall you don't go through so easy. They built a wall 2000 years ago that's 13000 miles. Think of that. That's a big wall. That's serious wall, right? This was 2000 years ago. I mean, it took them like 500 years to build it so you know, I got to be a little bit, you know, took a long time. But 13000 miles that's a long time. They had no tractors. They didn't have Caterpillars. Of course, today, we use Komatsus because they're made in Japan and you could buy them cheaper. How stupid is that? Because they devalued the yen so much and people are buying Komatsus instead of Caterpillars. Caterpillar's stock is down. It's terrible. We'll change that around. Believe me. Believe me. But, they build this wall. Now, we have really 15, I would say, look we have 2000 miles as opposed to 13000. But you don't need it on all of it because some you have natural landscaping, some you have a lot of places. And actually 10 years ago, everybody wanted the wall built. Hillary wanted it built. But they couldn't. Because I'm a great builder. What I do best is build. I'm not a rendering guy. I do the building and then do the rendering. A lot of these guys come in with renderings and it never gets built. Does that make sense to anybody? I'm the opposite. I get it built. So, one of the reasons it couldn't get built is because they couldn't get an approved environmental impact study. Do you believe this? No, no, they had certain snail doggers and different things. They couldn't get it. They could not get an environmental impact study approved to build a wall. And they're killing people. We have illegal immigrants. You see that with Kate in San Francisco. You see it with Jamiel. You see it with so many people. Last night in Massachusetts I met some unbelievable families that have been devastated by illegal immigrants. They come into this country and kill members of their family. Last week in California, a 66 year old veteran, a female, a veteran, 66, got raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. Raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. 66 years old. By an illegal immigrant that they caught, that they caught luckily. But this is what we have. We have stupid people in our government and we have people pouring across the border. And you know what? We have great border patrol people. I went there. You probably saw that. That's why the hat is so successful. The white one, right? But I went there, everybody wants to buy the hat. Now they like the white one. Then two weeks later, I wore the red one. The white one didn't sell so well. The red one sells. Crazy thing. But I went to the border and I got to know the people and I saw people, and you know it's rough stuff, it's rough stuff. And when I first came in and when I first did my opening statement that I was running for President, I talked about illegal immigration. I was killed by the press. Rush Limbaugh, who I think is a terrific guy, said Trump has received more incoming than any human being I've ever seen. Then he goes and has a news conference and I think he's going to apologize and he doubles down. I got credit. I got credit. No, they thought I was going to apologize. And I don't mind apologizing but I have to make a mistake to apologize and I was right. No, I was right. So for two weeks, as Rush said, I took incoming. In fact that was my first two weeks. I said Is it going to be like this for the next year and a half? I don't know if I can make it. It was brutal. Now, many of those people that talked that way, many of those people, they've apologized to me. Everybody says I'm right. And only because of me is everybody talking about illegal immigration. They wouldn't even be talking about it. They wouldn't even be talking about it. And we're going to build a wall and we're going to get, you know, the gang members in Baltimore and in Chicago and these are some tough dudes. They're going to be out so fast. One of the first thing I'm going to do is get rid of those gang members. We're going to be, you know, you look at what's going on with Baltimore, you look at what's going on in Chicago and Ferguson and St. Louis the other night. We are going to get rid of those gang members so fast your head will spin. You know, we can be very tough. I just met your cops outside. Those police are tough cookies. Those guys, we need law and order. We need law and order. I mean, they allowed, in one night, that first night in Baltimore, they allowed that city to be destroyed. And they set it back 35 years. One night. Because the police were not allowed to protect people. They weren't allowed to protect people. We have incredible law enforcement in this country and we have to be, the head of the police in Chicago is a person I know. Originally from New York. He's a phenomenal guy. He can stop things if they're allowed to stop them. He can stop it. Believe me. We have some incredible people. But we have to be tough. We have to be smart. You know, I know you're going to have some bad apples. You're going to have problems. I see some of the things. You did too and it's disgusting and it's horrible. But that's such a tiny percentage. The problem is the good work doesn't get shown on television. All of the good work, which is 99%. I mean, the good work with the police. It's 99%. That one little thing. And it's horrible. I agree. I hated some of the things. I don't have to go into them. But you know the same ones because you were sick when you looked at some of them just like I was. But we need law and order. We need our police. They're great people. They do a phenomenal job. They're right now afraid of doing anything. They're afraid. I mean, I know cities. I won't mention names but I know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have their pension; they don't want to be thrown off the police force. And then you wonder why there's crimes in our cities. So we need a whole new mindset. We have to build up our military. We have to make our military so strong. We have to make our military so powerful and so strong that we never have to use it. We never have to use it. We also have to focus on what we have, look, Ukraine. I want Ukraine to be healthy, vibrant and good. But Ukraine is near Germany and all of these European countries. We're now sending F-22s. That's the newest fighters. The best in the world. We're sending fighters every, Where's Germany? Where are all these European countries? It affects them. It affects them. And we want to stand alongside of them. I agree. But why are we leading the fight? Putin hates us. He hates Obama. He doesn't hate us. I think he'd like me. I'd get along great with him I think if you want to know the truth. No, he has no respect for our President and our President doesn't like him in all fairness. They don't have good chemistry to put it mildly, would you say. But I'd get along with these people. Think of it. Every country is ripping us off. Even Russia is ripping us off because in the Iran deal, which is going to go down as one of the worst deals ever, Russia is a big beneficiary because they're going to sell Iran missiles with the money we give to Iran. Think of that. So one of the biggest beneficiaries is Russia. Okay? But think of it. So, Ukraine, let's take a few of these things and then I'm getting the hell out of here; I'm going back to New York. Do you mind? Maybe I'll go to the Grand Ole Opry tonight. Can I do that? I'd actually rather, I love, by the way, this is not a politician speaking. Believe me. I hope. I love country music. I love it. Hey, Trace Adkins, right? And who else won on The Apprentice? Who else? John Rich. My kids love those two guys. John Rich. And who else? Who did really well? Clint Black. Right? Clint Black. He did great. And my Trace, how good is Trace, okay? You know, Trace came onto The Apprentice. And I said, Who the hell is he? Who is he? I didn't know who Trace was. I'd never heard of him. And he wasn't a big name. And he came on, just to show you how important this show is and his record or album or whatever you call it nowit went to number one. And then he came to me the next yearbut Trace came to me and he goes, you know, at certain awards show, I won't mention the name, but he said Last year, I couldn't get into the show and this year I'm hosting it, Mr. Trump, all because of you. Nice, right? I know, nice. But those three guys, they're great and they're just fantastic people. But we've got to make our country so strong. We have to make our country rich again. A person came up and said, Oh, that's not nice. What's not nice? They said rich, you know, to say we're going to make our country rich. We can't make our country great if we're going to be poor. We're a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion. China, think of this, China we owe $1 trillion to. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our base, they take our manufacturing and we owe them $1 trillion. How do you do that? That's like a magic act. Right? It's true. Japan sells us cars by the millions. They make a fortune. They come in, they sell us cars by the millions. And we owe them the exact same amount. We owe them $1 trillion. How come if they're selling us cars we owe them money? Think of it. Put on your business. See? I have a natural instinct for this stuff. Right? You know? Right? If we buy all these cars, why do we owe them money? But we owe them because they take all our money that they make and they buy our bonds. And we're paying interests on them and we owe them money. So, it'll change. It can change. It's not even going to be hard. People don't realize. See, Obama never read the Art of the Deal. People don't realize. Oh, and somebody said Sharon. It was Sharon. Where's Sharon? She gave me such a hard time. Where's Sharon? Where the hell is she? You could have both Sharons stand up actually. Where are they? Both of them. Sharon is great. Oh, did they go after her. She took a lot of incoming. Sharon, did you take a lot of incoming? I think so. Right? Thank you, darling. So, we are going to do something that if I get elected, and again they said I'll never run and now. One guy said, John McLaughlin, you ever watch the McLaughlin Report? I like him. And one of the people on the little group said Donald Trump is a great businessman but he'll never make it as a President. He'll never get elected. He'll never make it. And John McLaughlin, this crusty guy who I like; I don't know him. I never met him, I don't think. But I like. He's sitting there and he goes, and he got angry, he goes Why wouldn't he make it? You tell me why. He's been a tremendous success in everything he's done. I go all over the world. I see him name. I see his name all over. He's a great success. And he said, I think this is the word, He's a man of great achievement. Why wouldn't he make it? And I thought it was so nice and the other guy just sort of shut up. You know, because you need somebody of great achievement. You need, I've produced tens of thousands of jobs over the year. I don't have to worry about Obamacare. I take such good care of my employees. I have thousands of employees. I take good care of them. We have great plans. My employees are lucky. They hit the lotto, okay? But I take great care, education and health care, and my people are very happy. But I've done this for a long time, and I've seen ups and downs. I've seen market crashes. I've seen friends of mine go bankrupt. You've never seen, I've never gone bankrupt. By the way, I've used the laws to my advantage and companies. I buy a company. I throw it into a chapter. I negotiate with banks. I kill. You know. And then they say Trump goes bankrupt. These people, they don't have any, Now, when other people do that, when a Carl does it, I mean, they do it all the time. They use it all the time. It's called using your head. It's called using the laws. Actually I did a good job didn't I at the debate when Chris Matthews so angrily said, I do what every other great businessman does. I buy a company, you know, it's one company was sort of interesting. A friend of mine had it. Good guy. And the banks were just killing him. They were mean. And banks can be mean, right? You've got to teach them how to behave, right? So this guy was just getting beaten. And I did him a favor and I called up the banks. And I said Do me this, do this, do this, do that. They said, We won't do that. No, we won't do that. I said, You're making a mistake. Anyways, it's sort of a little bit complicated. I bought it. Immediately, I called them back and said, Don't do this. I threw it into a chapter. And they come out with the story Trump files bankruptcy. Can you believe it? I negotiated it to hell. What I did to that bank, ayeyeye. They see me walking down the street and they go Hey, hey, hey. But then I'm good at that stuff, you know? I'm really good at that stuff. But you have to use the laws to your advantage. No, no, you have to use it to your advantage. Atlantic City. You know, you look at Atlantic City. Caesar's went bankrupt. Whoever heard of Caesar's? Caesar's filed Chapter 11. Nobody cares. Everybody in Atlantic City. I had the good sense seven years ago and actually the financial media gives me great credit because I have a vision for things. I said, Don't go into Iraq even though I'm a very militaristic person. I said Don't go into Iraq and they shouldn't have because I said you're going to destabilize the Middle East. So what did we get, $2 trillion. Thousands of deaths. Thousands. Like 5000. Wounded warriors who I love all over the place. We can't even go there. Iran is taking over Iraq. With the money that we're giving them, they're going to take off and they're going to get the oil, they're going to get everything. The oil they don't get ISIS is getting. What do we get? Nothing. We get nothing. We got far less than nothing. So I had vision in 2004, Reuters, actually it was before that but they wrote a story. Trump says don't do Iraq. Now, I'm much more militaristic than Bush, even the brother. But you got to know where to use it and when. You got to use. So with Atlantic City, seven years ago, I got out. That's called vision. I should get credit for vision. And again, this isn't bragging. Normally, I wouldn't say this but I need your fricking votes. Do you understand that? Do you understand that? I mean, normally I wouldn't. So I got great credit. I got out. But most of the places in Atlantic City are either in trouble or they're bankrupt. They went bankrupt. But I made a lot of money in Atlantic City. I had a great time in Atlantic City but they asked me a nasty question, I gave a great answer. I thought. So I think I solved it. Listen, we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if I win. We are going to have victories again. We are going to win. In fact, last night in front of the audience and I've never said this before. Last night in front of the audience I said we're going to have so many victories. And then I said we're going to win here. We're going to win on trade. We're going to win militarily in terms of not having wars but just having such great strength that nobody's going to play with us. Nobody's going to mess with us. Okay? Nobody. And we're going to have victories. So many victories that are going to be coming out. In fact, you might get tired of victories. You may not want anymore. And everyone stood up and said No, no, no, we want to keep winning. If I win, we will have victories all over. We will win on trade. We will win on health care. We will win on everything. I will protect your Social Security without cuts. I will protect your Medicare and your Medicaid. We are going to have something that's so special. And you know, my whole fame is and I'll say it once. We will make America truly great again. And thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much! Wow. Wow, wow, wow! Unbelievable! Unbelievable! Thank you. Oh, that's so beautiful. You know, now I know how the great Billy Graham felt because this is the same feeling. We love Billy Graham. We love Billy Graham. You know, this all started, we had a hotel and we were going to have 250 or 300 people. And the hotel was great. They called and said, Something's happening here. We can't hold this. This is crazy, what's going on. And then we went to the convention center and they could have 10000 people and we're all set and we're excited. And the next day they said, Too many people. We can't put them in. So we came here. We came here. You know, today if you noticed, we have a stock market not doing so well. We have a country not doing so well. We've been saying it for a long time. We have politicians other than the few politicians that are with us tonight, well, exclude them. But we have politicians that don't have a clue. They're all talk; they're no action. What's happening to this country is disgraceful. And you know, when I announced I was running for President, I brought up the subject of illegal immigration. And I took a lot of heat, that, I can tell you. Rush Limbaugh actually said incoming, He got more incoming than anybody I've ever seen. And two weeks later, everybody was apologizing to me. They saw that I was right. Between what happened in San Francisco to incredible Kate and her family is such an incredible family, Jamiel Shaw, and so many people have been so badly hurt. The other day in California last week, a woman 66 years old, a veteran, was killed, raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed by an illegal immigrant. We have to do it. We have to do something. We have to do something. You know, if it rains, I'll take off my hat and I'll prove once and for all that it's mine, okay? The people that built this country. That's what we have here. I mean, the people that built the country. Great people. So we'll start with a little talk on the illegal immigration, what's going on. We're going to stop it. We're going to build a wall and it's going to be. You know, it's amazing. The politicians 10 years ago, 15 years ago, they all wanted a wall. But it never went. It never happened. Because somebody didn't want it. Probably a lobbyist. You know, all these guys like Bush and like Hillary Clinton, they're all taken care of, I don't know if you know, it's true. No, but when Hillary has $60 million and when Jeb Bush who's totally in favor of Common Core, weak on immigration, right? Very weak on immigration. Wants to let people come in. Although now, he is using anchor baby. You know, he put out a memo, You cannot use anchor baby. Now, because I used it, he's using it. Politicians. But when they have, in his case, $114 million, in Hillary's case, she's got $60 million. Now, I don't know that she's going to make it to the game. What do you think? I'm not sure that she's making it to the game. Some bad things came out today. You know, those classified, you know the word classified. You know, they've destroyed Gen. Petraeus over less and nothing seems to be happening here. So it will be very interesting to see what happens ultimately. But, we have right now and I just got these numbers today. I said What are they? 7% of all of the births in this country are illegal immigrants. Okay? Can't afford it. And they're supposed to stay. Now, I turned out to be right. The 14th Amendment. You know, I had these guys, You can't change the 14th Amendment. It will take so long. On that I agree. But you know what? An act of Congress, the 14th Amendment, I was right on it. You can do something with it and you can do something fast. You can do something fast. So we have 300000 babies a year. 300000 that you have to take care of. We all have to take care of. And you know, in the case of other countries including Mexico, they don't do that. It doesn't work that way. You don't walk over the border for one day and all of a sudden we have another American citizen. It doesn't work that way. Mexico doesn't do it. Other places don't do it. Very few places do it. We're the only place just about that's stupid enough to do it. So, I decided to run, I've gotten an amazing reception. I have to say, has this been crazy? I mean, it's been wild. I'm a non politician. The other day, I served jury duty. Right? I told you, they had occupation. I refused to put down politician. But I will say this: We have a great politician here. We have a man here who really have been, he's the one person I sought his counsel because he's been so spot on, he's so highly respected. Has anybody ever heard of Sen. Jeff Sessions? He was so great. Such a help. So, I go around and I see so many people and I've been treated so well by the people. And you know, we're leading in every poll. We're leading in just about every state, including Alabama. Big. We're leading in Florida. Could you believe it? We're leading big in Florida. And you know, it's really amazing. I said, Well Florida, I love Florida. It's a great place, right? Right. But Florida, we have a governor and we have a sitting Senator and I'm killing them. How do you explain that? Obviously they're not doing a very good job because that shouldn't be happening. But we're winning in Florida, Pennsylvania, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, North Carolina, Texas. And then, nationally, we're just absolutely way ahead of everybody else. In fact, you know, if this were another country, we could maybe call for an expedited election. Right? I would love that. Can we do that? Can we do that? I'd like to have the election tomorrow. I don't want to wait. So, the reason that I think we see this receptivity is that I know the game better than anybody. I've been on the other side. You know, I was totally establishment. Was handingmillions of dollars to these characters all the time, right? I was like the fair haired boy. Do I look fair haired? But I know the game. I mean, I understand it. And so many people have come up, lobbyists. I said I don't want money from lobbyists. But recently, last week, a man comes up who's a good guy. I know him. I said I don't want your money. I don't want your money because I don't know maybe I'll rethink it. Should I rethink it? Take it. You know what I should do? How about this? How about if I take his money but in the end, I screw him and don't do anything for him. Is that okay? Can I do that? You know, because I built a great business and I felt sort of stupid. I say I don't want your money. Can I take it please? I promise I won't do anything for him. I told him, I said, You know, I don't want your money because in two years when you come to see me about something I'm not doing it unless it's good and unless it's going to make America great again. Right? Right? But I'm going to have to rethink it. I think I'm going to rethink that because I think I should take a lot of money, are we allowed to give it to charity or something? I don't know. Just take it. Just take it. So what happens is these guys come up and I'm lucky. You know, everybody said he's never going to run. Okay? You know that. Right? And my wife actually said, You know, if you, she knows me pretty well and she also sees the reaction and for a long time whether it's Trump, The Art of the Deal, which Obama and Kerry obviously did not read when they did this crazy deal with Iran. Oh, look, the Art of the Deal. Give me that book. I love that book. You know, I said the other day and it sort of played pretty well that is my second, help her over here, give me that book. There's always the Art of the Deal and that's the real one; that's the original. That's when they use real paper right? You know, I said the other day because so many people they carry around the Art of the Deal because they're begging, they're begging their politicians Please, please read the Art of the Deal when you negotiate with China and with Japan and with Mexico and with Vietnam and with Saudi Arabia and with everybody. You know, right now we have a problem where North Korea's getting frisky. Right? Now, recently I ordered 4000 television sets. I'd like to order them from here. Like the hats made in America. Can you believe it? I was able to find a guy. I had to do that because you know these hats are hot as a pistol. You know that. And they're made in America. And I'm going to give you your book. Believe me, I haven't forgotten about you. But they're made in America. But the other day and now I see today it's sort of pretty hot on the news that our very dear friend North Korea is acting a little bit rambunctious again. So, I ordered 4000 television sets from South Korea, whether it's Samsung or Sharp or LG or any of them. They're all made in South Korea. I paid a fortune and they're wonderful. And they're wonderful people. They're making a fortune. We don't, do we have anybody who makes television sets in this country? I almost like don't think so, right? So they're mostly made, other than Sony, which has lost its way, prices are too high, but they're mostly made in South Korea. So now I see North Korea is acting up. So I see that we are sending ships and we're getting our troops ready. We have 28000 troops over there. And we're getting ready just in case. We're going to fight, we're going to protect. We get nothing. We get nothing. What do we get? We get nothing. Saudi Arabia, and I get along great with all of them. They buy apartments from me. They spend $40 million, $50 million. Am I supposed to dislike them? I like them very much. But you know, Saudi Arabia makes $1 billion a day. A day. That's, in all fairness, that's before the oil went down a little bit. But that's okay. These are minor details. But, let's say they were, let's say they're making a half a billion a day. That's not so bad, right? We get nothing. And they wouldn't be there without our protection. Even Germany, Germany's a power. Who has a Mercedes Benz? Anybody? A lot of people. They're a power. They pay us nothing. We defend the whole world. All you have to do, and we want to be nice. Somebody said, Oh, that's like the mafia defense. I said, Don't worry about it, okay? The mafia's not so stupid. All right? They said, That's terrible to ask for money. No, they said it. They said that's terrible. How can you possibly ask for money to defend a country? I mean, tell me, tell me, how crazy are we? Now, we're sending our ships, we're sending our everything. We got, I'll tell you what. Those 28000 troops that we have right now on the border between North and South Korea. That's dangerous territory. They're in harm's way. They're in harm's way. And we get nothing. We get nothing. Other than they're a good competitor. I mean, they compete with us. They take our trade. We lose a fortune with them. We lose a fortune with China. We defend Japan. You know, we have an agreement with Japan where if somebody attacks Japan, we have to come to their rescue. But if we get attacked, Japan doesn't have to help us. Do you think that's a good deal? That's sort of like Sgt. Bergdahl. Has anybody heard of Sgt. Bergdahl? The traitor. No, no, the traitor. I call President Obama the five for one President. We get Sgt. Bergdahl, a traitor, who by the way six people at least that we know of, six people were killed trying to get this guy back. Six people, they went after him. They wanted to get him back. So we get Sgt. Bergdahl and they get five people that they desperately wanted for years that are right now back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody including us. How stupid are we? How stupid are we? And you know, the reason we have crowds, and no matter where I go, the other night, we're in New Hampshire, we had some, New Hampshire was so incredible. The crowd. You saw it. You know, every time I go on television it's got to be live. It's live. I said, Oh, can I have a rest please? Tonight it's live on Fox. Who likes Fox? I like Fox. It's live on CNN. Who likes CNN? And it's live on MSNBC. Well, they're still working. But I said, How come it always has to be live? Why can't they just cover me like anybody else where they go the next day and they show a little clip? Every time I speak, it has to be live. It's ridiculous. But it's okay. Right? We have to suffer with it. But look, the reason I have this really incredible enthusiasm, and I really appreciate you especially with this weather and this heat and everything else, but the reason I have it is because I do know what I'm doing. And I don't say that in a braggadocious way. You people are looking for somebody that knows what he's doing. Whatever it is. I said it the other night, my second favorite book of all time, what's my first favorite book? The Bible. The Bible. And as much as I love the Art of the Deal, it's not even close. We'd take the Bible all the way, right? So, I was saying. So they said I wasn't going to run. And everybody said, Oh, he's never going to run. Never going to run. He's just having fun. Just a good time. His brand, Like I care about my brand. At this point, my brand, I mean, I lose gutless Macy's because I said about illegal immigration. They dropped my brand. They're not supposed to be, they're gutless. They're all gutless. I have to sue Univision. Univision, my poor Miss Universe people, these beautiful women, some are girls, but beautiful women and I get dropped. Think of it. You have these magnificent women who worked all their life to be in the Miss USA contest and the Miss, and two weeks before the contest, NBC and Univision dropped because they thought my tone was a little bit strong. And it turned out I was right. So here's the good news. I sued them both. And I mean, in the case of Univision, I sued them for $500 million. I want that money. I want that money. So I actually put it on the other day, Miss USA, I put it on because it was only fair to the people. And we had it in a small network and it was fun. But who would do that? All because they want to be so politically correct. They actually called and said, Oh, we'll get it back on soon. We'll get it back on soon. You know, in a case of a couple, they said Trump loses NASCAR. It was all over the world. A friend of mine called. You know, because I opened with a strong statement, meaning illegal immigration, we've got to solve the problem. So all over. One day it was NASCAR. Trump loses NASCAR. I said, I don't have a deal with NASCAR. It turned out that I lost NASCAR, you know what they did? They rented a ballroom at Trump Doral. Can you believe it? That was my loss. They had a ballroom. And by the way, I kept their deposit and rented it to somebody else. The next day, I didn't even know I had a deal with them. It turned out they had in one of my places. They're out. The next day ESPN severs ties with Trump. It's all over the world. ESPN, I have friends that called me. He's a great business. Oh, it's too bad about what happened to ESPN. You know what it was? A golf outing at one of my courses in Los Angeles. Can you believe it? This was my big deal. And this was all over the world. I mean, the press. I don't know. Maybe they didn't get it. Maybe they don't get it. I was very disappointed though with Macy's. You know, shirts and ties. It's not a big deal. But they heard they were going to be three pickets in front of the store and they called Oh, we're going to have pickets. We're going to have pickets. I said, Look, in two hours they'll be gone. Believe me, they'll go for lunch. They won't come back. Don't worry about it. It's true. But they said, Oh this is so bad. Can we sever ties? I said, I don't care, sever ties. I don't wear ties so much any more, you know. I didn't like the ties that much anyway. You know why? Because they were made in China. It always drove me nuts. True. But they were good. They were good. But I just hate gutless people. And so the reason that we're getting this receptivity, which is like this all over the place, is because I filed papers and they said I'm never going to run. Then they said I'm not going to sign the big document, which is a one page document which basically you're giving your life away and I signed. And then they said Oh, I can't believe it. The pundits, you know, they get paid a half a million dollars a year to sit there and make jerks out of themselves, right? Call them pundits. Some are great. Some are really incompetent. I could the ones but they're starting to get nicer to me so I think I can't. But what happens is they said He'll never file his financials. He'll never file because he's probably not as rich as people think. I said, Actually, one of the reasons I want to run is because I want to file my financials because they're so good. Because it's true. It's true. So I have like about 102 pages or 98 pages of stuff and they have all these boxes over $50 million, over $50 million. And I filed my financials and they were phenomenal. They were phenomenal. Much better. And people realized, and it was a net worth, and this is not bragging. I'm going to tell you why. Over $10 billion. That's good, right? Very little debt. Very little debt. In fact, to show you how stupid these people, it has a line for income and the income was like I think it's over $400 million a year. Is that good? My son is here. Look at Eric. He could live on that. It says a line, income and it's like, you know, varies with different things. But basically over $400 million a year. Is there anybody that would not want to make that much money in one year here? Well, with it comes responsibility but I will tell you this. The reason people like what I'm saying is because I want to put that energy, whatever the hell kind of energy it is, I don't know if it's screwed up, if it's good, if it's genius, if it's whatever it is, I know how to do things. And I'm not going to do, I don't care about, you know, we're building a great building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite, between, as you know, the White House and the Old Post Office. You know in real estate business slogan, Always get the post office because they were there first. I got the old post office in Washington, DC And I got it from the Obama administration. Can you believe that? Now, that's call dealmaking. One of the most sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration and I got it. And you know what? They did the right thing because we're doing a great job and we had a great statement. They wanted to make sure it gets done. And it will be opening, and here's a little story. It's now under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government? And we just finished Doral and lot of great jobs. And my son is here, Eric Trump. And Ivanka. Has anybody ever heard of Ivanka? And I'll let them run it. I'm not going to let them do any big deals. Just relax, Eric. Just relax. Calm it. But you know what? I won't care about that company. My whole energy, who cares? We do a building. It doesn't mean anything. My whole energy, my whole being is going to be to make our country rich and to make our country great again. And I mean, it's my primary, it's my aptitude. I've always had an aptitude for making money. Some people would say That's nice. One person said, Mr. Trump, that's very crass. I said, Why? You said you were going to make the country rich. That's very crass. I said, You have to understand in order to make our country great, I have to make it rich again. We're a debtor nation. He agreed. So I will devote 1000%. I couldn't care less about the Old Post Office. I couldn't care less about any of our stuff. My kids are very good. They're going to run it very nicely. And I just want to make this country so great. And that's what's going to happen. And that's what's going to happen. In Alabama, US Steel, big closure. Or essentially a closure. And I said, Why? What happened? And I went around. And I said, Anybody work there? No, I don't think so. I hope not. But big closure. And one of the reasons is China is dumping so much steel into the United States and other countries also. But China, I love that sign. Look at that, huh? Wow. Wow. Oh, that's true So China is dumping tremendous amounts of steel into our country. The government is subsidizing it. It's almost like they want us to just die. And they have no respect for us. And again, like Saudi Arabia, like Japan, I get along with them great. You know, the largest bank in the world is one of my buildings. They pay me rent. They buy apartments. They spend so much money. Am I going to dislike them? I love them. The problem is and I say it all the time. Their leaders are really smart. They're really cunning. They're really sharp. And we have dummies. Right? We have dummies. We have dummies. We have people that don't have a clue and I don't know. You know, some people say they're bad people. Well, I don't think they're bad people. I think they're incompetent people. A lot of people think they're bad. I don't think they're bad. I think they're incompetent. So you look at China and what they've done. And you know, last week and I said this and I've been saying bubble for a long time. You've been hearing it. Last week, they devalued their currency and we're having a lot of hard times because of what they did. And when I hear devaluation of the Chinese currency, you know the word, the sucking action. That's a sucking like the vacuum cleaner. I hear the sucking action. Two things happen. Two things get sucked out of us. Our jobs and our money. Now, think of it. China sells us our product, takes our jobs, takes our base, does our manufacturing for us, and we owe them $1 trillion. That's like a magic act. I call it the magic act in reverse. We owe them money. Japan, and Japan is back. They have Abe, who's the new prime minister. And Abe is really smart. I mean, he's smart. I met him one time. He's sharp. He's negotiating against Carolyn Kennedy. Carolyn. And I was watching 60 Minutes, I'll give you guys a plug, I was watching 60 Minutes and they're doing a feature on Carolyn Kennedy and she's very nice. You know why I like her? Because Ivanka Trump likes her. My daughter likes, anybody that my daughter likes, right? Anybody my daughter likes, we love Ivanka. So, what happens is that they're doing a feature and they said How did you become Ambassador to Japan? And with Japan, the Ambassador is a very important position because we negotiate. You know, you need somebody sharp. We need a killer. Right? A smart killer, not a dumb killer because there are plenty of dumb killers too. You need somebody sharp. So they said How did you get the Ambassadorship? She said, Well, and this is pretty close. You can check it out. Well, I don't know. I wanted a job and I had nothing to do. So I went to the White House and I said, 'Could I have a job? Do you have anything for me to do? And they said, How would you like to be Ambassador to Japan? And she said, Really? She said, I'll do it. She couldn't believe she got it. And then they showed the rest of the show as her being wined and dined by Abe and all of these killers. Wined and dined. She's being feted at dinner, at this, and lunches and breakfast. She'll do anything they want. Anything. So I have the smartest, toughest, meanest, in many cases, the most horrible human beings on Earth. I know them all. They're killers. They're negotiators. Some are nice people. Very few. Some are nice people. But I will put the meanest, smartest, we have the best in the world. We don't use them. We use political hacks, diplomats. We use people that don't have any business ability. We use people that have never done a job. You know, like as an example, Carl Icahn, did anyone ever hear of Carl? He's an unbelievably brilliant tough businessman. So I called him. I had dinner with him two nights ago. I said, You know, Carl, I'm doing pretty well. I'm leading every poll. He said, You're doing great. He can't believe it either. And I said, If I ever get there, I want you to oversee the negotiations with China and Japan. I'll do it. I'll do it. He's like I'll do it. Remember when I said somebody has blood come out of her eyes with hatred? Right? Well, he had blood coming out of it; he will do it. He is an unbelievable negotiator. An unbelievable negotiator. And I know others. I know the best. I know the worst. I know the ones that are overrated. I know the ones that you've never heard about or read about that are better than all of them. But Carl's one of the greats. I mean, he's very famous. He's very rich. And he would love to do it. He'd love to give back. And he knows what's happening. They're ripping us. So they send their stuff over here. And actually, somebody the other day said What China has done to the United States is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. Isn't is an interesting statement? We've rebuilt China. We've rebuilt China. So you know we have free trade. The problem with free trade is when you have free trade, very important, you need competent leaders. That's the one problem with free trade. I like free trade. I'm a free trader. The problem is you need great negotiators, great leaders. We don't have that. So we're getting killed by everybody. I use these three or four countries. We don't make good deals. Everybody's killing us. So we will have unbelievable deals. A friend of mine is a manufacturer, and he's trying to do business with China. And what he's going, and he's a great manufacturer. Makes great products. Better than what they did. They don't want him sending his stuff. And he calls me and he goes, You know, it's impossible to do business. I can't get my product, they're dumping stuff over here, comes in by the ship load. He said, It's impossible. I can't get my product, Finally gets a product in there and they charge him a massive tax which they call a tariff because it sounds a little more sophisticated, right? And he calls me. And he goes, It's impossible to do business with China. Boeing does business with China. And they want all of their intel. They want all of their copyrights. They want everything. Otherwise, we're not buying planes. And they're now building big factories, I don't blame China. I mean, I respect them. Not angry at them. I'm angry at our leaders for being so stupid. I'm not angry at China. And Mexico is the same thing. You know, Mexico is the new China. The other day, Nabisco, Nabisco. Oreos. Right? Oreos. I love Oreos. I'll never eat them again. Okay? I'll never eat them again. No, Nabisco closes a plant. They just announced a couple of days ago in Chicago. And they're moving the plant to Mexico. Now, why? Why? Why? Have you heard? My favorite story is with Ford So Ford, great company. They're building a $2 billion car factory in Mexico. Now, they're closing up places all over the United States. They're building this massive factory in Mexico. So I went to this great school. I was actually, you know, I was totally still am really smart. I went to this great place, the Wharton School of Finance, hardest school to get into. Even then it was hard to get into. The hardest. But I went to this great business school and I get business. And I fully understand. Really good at this stuff. So they're building a $2 billion plant. They're going to close up factories in the United States. They're going to go and build this plant, they're going to sell cars, they're going to sell them back to us, they're going to sell them. Where does that help us? Tell me. Explain. Explain. There's no tax. There's no nothing. There's no nothing. So we're closing plants here. They're building this massive plant in Mexico. Another plant. Also another big foreign car company. There was a plant being built. It was all set to get started. They were going to announce it in Tennessee. You read about it. And this was a couple of months ago. Wall Street Journal. All set to get started. All of a sudden, Mexico took it away. And now it's not going to be built in Tennessee. It's going to be built in Mexico. So Ford is building a plant. I give myself this position. And I say Let's assume that somebody else becomes President. Wouldn't that be horrible? Wouldn't that be horrible? So let's assume somebody else becomes President. Let's assume a very low energy person, very, very low energy. So low energy that every time you watch him, you fall asleep. Yeah, Hillary too. So let's say Jeb becomes President. Not good. Not good. First thing's that's going to happen, like I said, your school's going to hell. People flow over, but forget about that. So let's say that Jeb doesn't want this plant build. So they're going to call him, the head of Ford, and they're going to say, Mr. President, we want to build it. He'll say, Well, we don't want it built. The next day or the next hour, he's going to get a call from the lobbyists and the special interests and his donors and they're going to say, Hey Jeb, we gave you $8 million of your $120 million that you raised. We gave you $8 million. We want that thing done. You can't do that to our people. Oh, well, okay, I'll approve it. It's going to get done. Okay? The plant will get built and that would be it. Now, let's take Trump as President. Okay, is that better? Here's the simple question: Who would you rather have negotiating with China, Japan, Mexico, any other? Trump or Bush? Actually, ah, what a group. What a group. Well, you know, it's sort of interesting. CNN does this big report that came out last week that I was leading in the poll. So it's a poll. And everybody says why don't I have a pollster. What the hell do I need a pollster? Everyday I wake up there's another poll. Right? You know, they pay these guys like $100000 a month and they can't function because unless they go and have it vetted with their pollster, they can't talk. And I say, Why do I need a pollster when everyday there's a new poll and they give like 30 pages? I don't have to get a pollster. What the hell do I need it? But CNN did this very expensive, very well done poll. It's only well done because I was leading by a lot. And they had leadership. I was way ahead of everybody. They had actually I was very good in, you know the thing I'll be great atand I'll do very well at it, military. I am the toughest guy. I will rebuild our military. It will be so strong, so powerful and so great. It will be so powerful and so great that we'll never have to use it. Nobody's going to mess with us, folks. Nobody. Nobody. Nobody's going to mess with us. So, I look at the various things to do with our country. And by the way, one of them, boy, we're going to take care of our vets. Right? Right? They did a poll but they did a poll on like who's one of the most popular with the vets? I was the most popular person. They like me. And I love them. Because you know why? Because for 35 years, these Senators and these, other than Jeff, of course. I take Jeff. But these Senators, these Congressmen, these people in Washington, including Presidents, they have done nothing for the vets. They have done nothing. And we're going to take care of our vets. But so they do this poll, and in the poll, I scored really high marks on almost everything other than, they thought I wasn't a nice person. They said who's the nicest and I was pretty low on that part. And I'm a nice person. But who cares? A woman came up to me and she said, I'm not choosing, you're not nice enough to be President. I said, You know what? This is not going to be an election based on a nice person. It's going to be based on a competent person. We're tired of the nice people. So, I won on the economy. I won on jobs. I won on leadership by massive numbers. Like massive. You've seen it. I won on all these categories. I said, Why do we need an election? We don't need an election. These are such important categories. But I have had an amazing experience because from the time I announced almost, other than the first week. That was a rough week. They were hitting me. But the press, which is by the way largely very dishonest. I have to say this. The political media, I actually think that the political media is less popular than Congress. Can you believe it? And Congress has almost no rating. And in all fairness, because look at all those cameras. They're all live and they're trying to shut off the camera right now. But you know what? They're all live. And so many live cameras. But I will say this. The media is very dishonest but there is a certain group that are fantastic people and every once in a while I'll get an honest story and I love it. I cherish those stories. They're not often. But I cherish those stories. They really started treating me much better. Don't forget, when I first ran, I said you know it's amazing. Went to a great school. Excellent student. Smart guy. My uncle was a professor at MIT who was a smart guy. You know, good smart guy. Good family. Do we believe in the gene thing? I mean, I do. Right? You know, I do But then I went out and built a tremendous fortune and great company. I did the Art of the Deal and many books that were bestsellers. The Art of the Deal is one of the biggest selling, maybe the biggest selling, business book of all time. I did The Apprentice. We love The Apprentice. Tremendous. NBC hates me. You know, NBC hates me because they renewed The Apprentice and I said, Excuse me, I'm not doing it. I'm running for President. I'm going to make the country great again. They actually came up to my office and the top people, great people from NBC, and they said, Please, please. They said We had already renewed the show. They had sold most of the advertising. They renewed the show. I said I'm going to run and I'm going to make our country great I'm hired. You're hired! So, I look at the landscape of our country. I look at where we're going. I look at where we've been. We've had a horrible number of years. A horrible number of years. We can't beat ISIS. I watched the general the other day on television, who's just retiring, which is fortunate. How do you think we'll do against ISIS? Oh, I don't know. It's going to be very tough. Can you believe this? General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur are spinning in their graves as you listen to this. They're spinning in their graves. He talks about a hard time. And I look at what's going on with the landscape and I get to meet all of the people that I've met over the last period of time and I want to tell you it's been amazing. It's been really amazing. And I want to finish up with a couple of little points. One of them is the Ford deal. Right? Israel, I love Israel. The bottom line on Ford, I love this story because, so when I get the call, I say, No, no, no. You're going to build in the United States. They're going to say No, we don't want to do that. I say, Let me tell you, sir, you're going to build in the United States. And I will be called by people but I will not have any of their money so I don't care. And they're going say, and I'll call them in and I'll say, Listen, here's the story. You're building $2 billion in Mexico. We're going to charge you a tremendous little 35% tax. 35%. And that tax is going to be for every car and every part and every truck that comes into the United States. And here's what's going to happen, as sure as you're standing or sitting, they're going to come back to me the following day. I would say the following afternoon. Let's say 12And I don't need Carl Icahn. This one is too easy. And they're going to come back and they're going say, Mr. President, what you're doing to us is terrible. We will build in the United States. We will build the plant in the United States. 100%. And I'll say the same thing to Nabisco. It doesn't help us. It doesn't help us. When you look at what's going where Nabisco is closing and so many places are closing, when you look at the kind of money that these countries are making and I'm naming a few, I mean, so many countries, we don't have anything left. We're running on fumes. We're running on fumes. There's nothing here. When you look at what happens, they're so much sharper, they're so much smarter, and we're not going to have a country left. We need to have our borders. We need to make great deals. You know, the man in the back just shouted Israel. How would you like to be Israel right now? They relied on us. They're a voice of sanity. They're great people. And we have a deal that is so incompetent, so bad. Think of the deal. We make a deal. Our chief negotiator goes into a bicycle race at 73 years old. He falls, he breaks his leg. That was the good part of our deal. That was the only thing that happened. No, think of it. And I told people last week as I told this last week, I swear to you I will never, ever ride a bicycle at least in a race but I won't ride one anyways. But we have new thing that just came up in the deal. We know all about the 24 day period, right? But the 24 day period, that doesn't start, that clock doesn't start ticking for a long time. For a long time. So that could be forever. So if they're doing something, believe me, by the time we get there, But there's the all time great. First of all, why aren't they giving us back our prisoners? And second, can you believe this? And second of all, the other day it was determined that Iran in a very important section, maybe the most important, right?, is going to do their own policing. They are going to police and they are going to tell us We swear we're not building anything. It's so sad. It's so sad. Obamacare, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare. We are going to come up with a plan and there are so many different ways. You know, you don't know this because you don't think of Obama this way. Do you know who the biggest beneficiaries of Obamacare are? The insurance companies. The insurance companies. Remember I told you special interests and lobbyists, the insurance companies love it. We can have such great plans if we'd get rid of the artificial lines around every state. I have a huge company, and when I negotiate, I like get one group. They don't, you can't negotiate. Some of the people that own businesses know what I'm talking about. The insurance companies are so protected, they're making a fortune. We're going to end that. We're going to make it so competitive. We're going to get rid of the artificial barriers. You're going to get such great plans. And Obamacare, I mean, you look at what's happening with your premiums. I mean, look at this. Look at what's happening. Just take a look at what's happening to the deductibles. They're so high, it's impossible. It's impossible. Trade, we're going to fix it. Health care, we're going to fix it. Women's health issues, we're going to fix it. My wife came up to me the other day and she said It's really sad because people don't understand how you cherish women. I will protect women. It's so important to me. So important. And I heard some of the other candidates, Jeb and some of the others the other day, saying we're not going to fund various women's health issues. Can you believe this? I said, That's the end of his election. Women, I don't think, like that too much. Do we agree? And he said, we're not going to fund women's health issues. A few hours later, he came back and he said he misspoke. Oh, okay. He misspoke. But women's health issues, so important. We're going to end up taking our country. We are going to make it so strong, so powerful, so loved by people again, so loved. You know, one of the problems that we have and you don't see it tonight but you see it is the tremendous lack of spirit. And I actually thought that President Obama, the one thing, he was inexperienced, he never produced a job. Lots of other things. But I actually thought that he would be a great, a really great cheerleader for the country when he was elected. I thought that he would. And he's really turned out to be a great divider as opposed to a great unifier. Really had. And you look at Baltimore, you look at Ferguson, you look at St. Louis last night over the last week, you look at all of the things that are happening. We're sitting on powder kegs. There's no spirit. There's no jobs. There's no anything. We are going to take this country. I am going to be the greatest jobs President that God ever created. I will tell you that. I will tell you. You are going to be so proud. You know, I oftentimes say the American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and stronger and more powerful than ever before. And that's what's going to happen. I am going to make this country bigger and stronger and better. And you're going to love it and you're going to love your President. And we're going to turn this place around and you're going to be so proud. And you know our whole theme is make America great again. We are going to make America better than it's ever been and we're going to love doing it and we're going to have fun doing it. And I just want to thank everybody because this has been really, really special. Thank you. Thank you very much! Thank you very much. Thank you. It's a great honor to be here. Thank you Well, it's just, it's going to be very exciting for the kids and I know that the kids are going to go up. We have quite a few children who are going to take rides today. So, where are the children? Get them over here. That's great. I love children. I love Iowa. Great place. I've really developed a relationship with it, and it's an amazing place. Well, I've been doing it. You know, I've been here many times, as you know. And we have a great staff with the whole place. I mean, Chuck and everybody. So I've really been doing it. And actually the venues have gotten larger and larger because we've really gotten some tremendous crowds. We're doing record breaking crowds. And I'm so honored when I saw the recent polls with Iowa, leading by a lot. But we have actually, and we started with the smaller venues and we've gotten bigger and bigger. The crowds have gotten to be enormous actually. I would still do that if it was appropriate. I love my kids. Come here, kids. Does anybody want to take a ride? Looks nice, right? They're going to have a great time. It's a great experience. I do. I have jury duty. Can you believe this? I look forward to it, actually. I have no expectation. I just hope they're innocent. Whoever it is, I hope they're innocent. Well, she's got a lot of problems with the email situation. It's a big problem. If you look at Gen. Petraeus, he had just a tiny fraction of what she's got going and they destroyed his life virtually. So I think she's got some very big problems. I wish her luck but I think she's got some big problems. It would look that way to me. I don't know. I always say you're innocent until proven guilty. But certainly it would look that way. It looks very serious as far as Hillary's concerned. I hope that's not what happens to her but certainly the facts aren't looking for her right now. And if you look at Gen. Petraeus, what he went through on a much lesser level, is I think it's going to be very tough for her. I don't even want to talk about that question. That's a very serious question. And hopefully, you would never have to use a nuclear weapon. Hopefully. But we have to be prepared. Look, the world hates us, probably never like this before. And we have to build up our military. We have to take care of our vets. And we have to have the finest armament. We have to have the finest military and equipment anywhere in the world by a factor of 10. We have to be protected. We have to be so tough and so strong and so smart that nobody will ever mess with us. I'd say hello. Well, we've done so well because people hear my message. We're being ripped off by everybody in the world whether it's China, or Japan, Mexico, both at the border and in trade in the case of Mexico. Mexico is sort of becoming the new China in terms of trade. So many companies, just yesterday I read where Nabisco, Nabisco is moving to Mexico. I mean, give me a break. So we have to reverse that. We need jobs in our country. We don't have to worry about other countries. We're going to take jobs back from China, Japan. We're going to make our country great again. And that to me is going to be the challenge. And we're going to do it and it's not going to be that difficult. I spoke with Carl Icahn. He's a friend of mine. He's a great negotiator. He will help us. All of the best negotiators, we have the best business people in the world in this country. They'll all help us. And believe me, when I get the right people negotiating with the right countries, we will come out on top every single time. And that's what we need. Well, Jeb Bush is a puppet to his donors. There's no question about it. He's got lobbyists. I know that. He's got lobbyists and you know he made statements over the last couple of days that are incredible trying to justify the war in Iraq. Can't be justified. And then he said skin in the game. I don't know if you saw his recent statement. He said the United States has to prove to Iraq that we have skin in the game. We've spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who I love all over the place, and he said we have to prove that we have skin in the game. I think it maybe one of the dumbest statements I've ever heard. Skin in the game. We don't have to prove anything. First of all, the Iraqi officials are a bunch of crooks, if there's even an Iraq which I don't think there is. Iran is taking over Iraq. It was one of the dumbest things ever. And I think what happened because I understand psychology, I think his brother probably said Hey, you're killing me. That was his war and he looks very bad. So Jeb Bush tried to push back. But when he said we have to prove to Iraq that we have skin in the game and we've lost all of those lives and all of that money, I think he should apologize to the families of the people. I was one of the greats. But now I'm on the different side. I know how the system works better than anybody. Many of the people that gave to Jeb and to Hillary and to everybody else, they're friends of mine or enemies of mine but they're people I know. These are not people that are doing it because they like the color of his hair, believe me. These are highly sophisticated killers. And when they give $5 million or $2 million or $1 million to Jeb, they have him just like a puppet. He'll do whatever they want. He's their puppet. Believe me. And with me, I had yesterday a lobbyist called me up. It's a friend of mine. Good guy. Smart as hell. He's, for his client, I don't blame him. He said, Donald, I want to put $5 million into your campaign. I said, I don't need it. I don't want it. He said, No, no, I want to put $5 million in. I said, I don't want it because when you come back to me in two years and you want help for a company you're representing or a country that you're representing, I'm going to do the right thing for the people of the United States and I don't want to have to insult you. So honestly, I appreciate it. I don't want your $5 million. I'm turning down so much money. But if he put it up, I'd feel obligated because I'm a loyal person just like Jeb Bush. Jeb Bush and all of them. I'm not just talking about Jeb Bush. Hillary too. Believe me. Nobody played the game better than I did. I know the game from the other side and that's the way it works. Nobody else will do the job that I will do. I will bring back jobs. I will strengthen our military. I'll take care of our vets. I'll get rid of Obamacare, which is by the way a catastrophe. Look at what's happening with your, no, look what's happening. Look what's happening. The cost of your insurance is going through the roof. Look what's happening. It's terrible. I will take care of people. And I will be better to women. It's another thing. I heard with Jeb, women's health issues he didn't want to fund. Then he goes back two, three hours later and he said oh he misspoke. He misspoke? I will be so great to women. I cherish women, and the women haven't been take care of properly. When I hear somebody like Jeb Bush talking about we're not going to fund, then he comes back because you know his pollsters said You made a mistake. You have to go back and take it back. But he doesn't mean it from the heart. Well, you're going to have to be very forceful action. Very, very forceful action. You cannot let Iran, let me just tell you this, nor can Israel. Israel was sold out by Kerry and Obama. You cannot let Iran have a nuclear weapon. You can't have it. When they march down the streets saying Death to Israel, Death to the United States. You can't let it happen. It will not happen. Believe me, it will not happen here. It's irrelevant. Well, you saw I make $400 million a year. So what difference does it make? What I want to do is I want to make the country great. That's all I want to do. That's much more important. My businesses have been so successful. My children are my executives who will run that easily. I won't even think about, I won't even care about it. My sole focus will be taking that brain that built a great business with some of the great assets of the world. I have some of the great assets, Turnberry in Scotland, Doral in Miami, I have some of the greatest assets in the world. Best locations in Manhattan. Trump Tower, 57th and Fifth. That's what I do. That whole, whatever it is, whatever kind of a brain that is will be used to making our country rich again. Trade deals, great trade deals. Making our country rich. And then making it great. We can't make it great unless we make it rich. We have to bring back the money. We're a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion. So, my whole focus will be this country and making it great. I would do that, yeah, if I had to. Yes, I do. I have the exceptions and I've been open about that. I don't think I've made mistakes. I mean, every time somebody says I made a mistake, they do the polls and my number goes up. So I guess I haven't made any mistakes. Look, when I said Mexico is sending, I was talking about illegal immigration. The people understood it even though the press didn't want them to. My numbers went up. When I talked about John McCain, I was saying how bad he's treated the veterans because the veterans are treated badly. Then they do a poll. Who do you like better, to the veterans, John McCain or Trump? And I swamped him in the poll. The veterans like me better because they know I'll take care of them. He hasn't taken, after 30 years, he hasn't taken care of them. And this last thing with Fox. I mean, I love Roger Ailes. But all you have to do is ask Roger Ailes Who won? So I don't think I made any mistakes. I'm sure I will at some point. But so far, you would have to say Has it worked out badly? Right? That one I haven't heard. That won't happen. She's fantastic though. I'm going to do a lot of things. Almost everything. You want to know what things am I going to do different for this country? Almost everything because that's what has to happen. Everything we do is wrong. The military, we're not taking care of the military. Not taking care of our vets. We're not taking care of our country. We're not taking care of our finances. We're not taking care of our trade deals. When was the last time you saw this country have a victory? We don't have victories. We don't have victories against China in trade. China just devalued their currency. That's the sucking sound. You know what that is? That means jobs and money coming out of our country. What they did with that devaluation, the biggest devaluation they've had in two decades. They're killing us. They won't be doing it when I'm watching. And I think our people have no idea what's happening This is absolutely unbelievable. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. So this began as 500 people in a ballroom in Phoenix. And the hotel called us up and they said, Please don't do it here. We're going to be swamped. It's going to destroy the building. It's been amazing. And outside, sadly, we have thousands of people that can't get in. So you know real estate. You know real estate. I want to thank everybody. You know, last night, and a lot of you saw it on television, it was actually carried live, we had an amazing event and a very sad event. And yet, very beautiful. Because the word is getting out that we have to stop illegal immigration. We have to. We have to. We have a situation that's absolutely out of control. We have incompetent politicians, not only the President. I mean, right here in your own state, you have John McCain. I just hate to see when people don't have common sense, don't have an understanding of what's going on, or perhaps don't want to know. Maybe it's campaign contributions. Maybe it's special interest. Maybe it's lobbyists. But for some reason, some people don't get it and I don't think they'll be in office much longer. I really mean that. We are going to make this country so great again. We are going to work so hard. And I will say this: When we had our event last night, I saw hardened veteran reporters who were crying. You had to see this. People that I've known for a long time that I don't even like, they're not good people. How are you doing back there? And one in particular, tears are streaming down his face and I'm saying, I don't believe what I'm seeing. I didn't think he had a tear in him. And some of the people that spoke were absolutely amazing. One, their child was killed by an illegal immigrant, shouldn't have been here. And this began for me, it's very interesting because when I started and when I announced, don't forget, everybody said, He's never going to run. Right? Then they said very strongly, you know, these are very knowledgeable people; they don't know anything. Then they said, He'll never file his FEC paper. I filed that two weeks ago. They said, Oh, wow. Then they said, He'll never file his financials because he's not as rich as people think. And they get filed during this week. And by the way, some of the other candidates will not be filing from what I hear. Okay? And when they filed, the number is actually much higher than anybody ever knew. And I'm not saying that to brag. I'm only saying that because that is the kind of thinking our country needs. We need thinking where trade deals with China, with Japan, with India, with everybody. We're getting ripped. We're being taken apart piece by piece, slowly. Slowly. China laughs at us. They laugh at our stupidity. They laugh at our incompetent politicians. They have geniuses negotiating for them. We have people who don't have a clue; they don't have a clue. Mexico, and by the way. Officially, and I've only said this about 200 times but it never gets reported. I love the Mexican people. I love the spirit of the Mexican people. I love them. Many, many people from Mexico, legal. They went in the old fashioned way. They're legal. Many, many people from Mexico work for me. And over the years, thousands of people, Hispanics, have worked for me. And many, many work for me now by thousands. They're incredible people. By the way, nobody ever says that. Nobody ever says that. They always cut that out. And I'll go a step further. I respect Mexico greatly as a country. But the problem we have is that their leaders are much smarter, sharper, and more cunning than our leaders, and they're killing us at the border and they're killing us in trade. They're killing us. And every once in a while I'll see a rally and it's put up by the Mexican government in my opinion. People come in. They're so perfect. They're like central casting. And you know how long the rallies last? Like about 12 minutes. They go home. But when you do, I've said this often. It's very, very hard for a very successful person, and I've heard it from the time I was a little boy, to run for President or even political office. And I find it and I have headlines everyday. ESPN drops Trump. A friend of mine in Paris called. Oh Don, it's too bad about ESPN. You know what they were doing? They rented my golf club for a day. They put up a big deposit. I took their deposit. And then I rented it to somebody else. I made two for the price of one. No, it's true. Then the next day all over the world, NASCAR drops Trump. NASCAR. NASCAR. And then friends of mine call up from Europe. Headlines, NASCAR. Don, it's too bad about NASCAR. I feel so, You know what that one was? They rented a banquet hall at Trump National Doral in Miami for one evening. I took their deposit, I took their deposit. And you know what? I just rented it for much more money than they were paying. So it's two for the price of one. You know, I may make money running for President. It's very interesting. Then all over the place, I hear Macy's. Now, Macy's hurts because the head of Macy's I thought was a great friend of mine, Terry Lundgren. Nice guy. He called me up, and I'm in New Hampshire and I'm getting ready to go on to make a speech. Sort of interesting. It's like 6:30 in the evening, and I get a call from Terry Lundgren of Macy's. And the speech is packed. It was a house. It was supposed to be in the house. They didn't have enough room. They had 300, 400 people and they never thought this was going to happen. They thought there were going to be 30 like this. This is a little larger but the same thing proportionally. So my phone rings, my cell phone, and it's Terry Lundgren of Macy's. And the man on stage is getting ready to introduce me. And he said, And you know, we have Donald Trump, the American dream and blah, blah, blah, blah, everything. And my phone rings during the introduction. I'm going to be going up there like in a minute. And he goes, Donald, hi. He's like my best friend. I said, Terry, what's your problem? He said, You're very controversial. He said, and I'm supposed to be going up. I'm supposed to make a speech. I got all these people. And by the way, cameras, just like all these cameras, you have all these cameras, we're on live television all over the place like we are now. And he said, Donald, I had calls from Hispanic people saying they're going to boycott Macy's. I don't know what to do. I said, Terry, be tough. They'll be gone. One day, one day. Now, this is a man I played golf with. I'm with him all the time. I mean, really was, was, was, you understand, because I don't forget things He said to me, Please, please, Donald. Can I cut you? It's not a big deal. I'm selling ties. And honestly, you know what? They were made in China so I didn't care that much. I was like screw it. So I'm walking up the stairs to make a speech and I have Lundgren saying I'd like to cut you because he's going to get some bad publicity, he thinks. And I walked upstairs and he said, And now the American dream. And I'm still talking to Lundgren, and it's like a minute and a half before I walk on stage. People said, What happened? And I made a good speech. No notes. No nothing. And everybody was happy. And I just got cut from Macy's. And here's the bottom line on Macy's. Thousands and thousands of people are cutting up their Macy's credit card. Thousands. Then I get a call from NBC. Now, let me tell you about NBC. No, no, I got to tell you. Hey, look, I love the people at NBC. We had a tremendous success with The Apprentice. And they renewed The Apprentice. See? I give up a lot. You're going to see how much money I made with The Apprentice come Wednesday or Thursday when I do my filing. Seriously. It's a very lucrative, you know, it's great when you have a big television show. It's like, you know, you're a movie star; you get a lot of money. Right? Not that much but a lot. But you're going to see very impressive numbers. So NBC calls me, We'd like to see you. Now, they don't care about inclusion. They were talking about inclusion. You know, they write their press release. So, I read this and I say, This is incredible. But they called me and a couple of months ago the head of NBC comes to see me. And the head of NBC's boss, I don't want to mention names because they're really good people. They're friends of mine although I'll probably never speak to them again either. And you know, the head of NBC's boss, that's Comcast because they own NBC. So I get a call, the head of reality for NBC, the head president of NBC, and the head of everything, the head of Comcast. And they come to see me a number of months ago, Please do The Apprentice. Please. They won't deny it. They won't deny it. I said, I can't. I want to make America great again. I've done The Apprentice now for 12 years and it's a great show. For 12 years. There have 14 or 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every one have failed. Every single one. I mean, I could give you names but I don't want to embarrass people. Nah, give you a couple of names. No, nice people. Mark Cuban did one called The Benefactor. It was a disaster. Richard Branson did one. Great guy but it didn't work out. Tommy Hilfiger, who I love. A tenant in my building. Great guy. Didn't work out. Hiltons did one. Martha Stewart did one for us. Did one for Mark Burnett and Donald Trump. Martha Stewart. She'd just got out of the can. No, it's true. She's hot as a pistol. You know, they showed her coming out. You know, she's got the whole thing with the whole outfit that she's wearing. The whole thing. I said, What a great idea. So we actually did The Apprentice done by us. It wasn't even a copy. It was called The Apprentice. Within a couple of shows it was over. It was over. So I must have something, right? I must have. So here's the story. NBC sees this. I mean, they're smart people. So NBC comes to my office and they want me to do The Apprentice so badly. And what do I do? I said, I can't. I'm going to run for President. And I said, Because of equal time, Now, you know what equal time. Such a stupid law. Obama can go on television all day long and be President and run for office. But if I have a television show, what happens is everybody running for office would have to be able to do The Apprentice. Equal time. So you'll have a good guy named Rick Santorum. You'll have all these guys. You'll have somebody who used to head up Lehman Brothers, the governor from Ohio. Headed up Lehman Brothers. Lehman Brothers almost took down the world. He was a managing partner. I think he's a nice man. I don't know. But I know if you're the managing partner of Lehman Brothers, Lehman Brothers almost, you're not looking too good. You know. But all of these guys, they would have to be given two hours in primetime television on Monday or Sunday night. I don't think so. So they came to my office and they said, We'd like you to do it. So important. And by the way, they renewed The Apprentice. It was really very interesting because a lot of people said, Well, how could, at the upfront, they announced The Apprentice, which is good because I always want to be loved, you know? Like when I went on dates, if a woman dropped me, which happened often, I would always like to say or at least in my own mind that I dropped her. Does that make sense? So what happened, makes me feel better. So they renewed The Apprentice and I said I'm not going to do it because I'm going to run for President. They didn't believe me. I said, Why won't you believe me? Why would you give up a primetime show? Mark Burnett calls from, a great guy. Survivor, Apprentice. Great guy. He really is a wonderful guy and a friend of mine. He calls me, he goes, Donald, they're giving you an extension. Nobody turns down an extension. He said, I've never heard of it before. I said, Mark, I'm going to run for President. Nobody believed me. Then I run. And the guys, they're in my office and they said Run and then by September, we'll do something. Do you believe that? Do you believe that? And I said, well if I don't do well, I would have done that. You know, why not? You know, if I'm not doing well, if it's obvious I'm, there's a problem. We just went to number one in the polls. So, NBC went nuts. They renewed their show and they don't have their star and everybody else failed with similar shows. And they're angry at me. So again, don't believe the inclusion. They've got Rev. Al Sharpton working for them. Okay? He's actually not a bad guy. He's a con man. You'd have to understand it. Rev. Al is a con man. You know, tells people I'm going to picket you if you don't give. I mean, this guy is a con man. But I've known him for 20 years. He's fine. You've got to understand who you're dealing with. They've got lying Brian Williams. He's okay. They sent me the most beautiful present a couple of months ago. Hundreds of, I shouldn't say the name because I deal with all of them, but in this case, Titleist. They sent me hundreds and hundreds of Titleist golf balls. Top of the line. They sent them to me. Card, From your friends at NBC. A short time later, they say He's not inclusive, me. I'm more inclusive than anybody. More inclusive than anybody. I then get a call. Univision. Now, Univision controls and by the way, believe me. Univision has a certain power. Now, I didn't know much about Univision. I thought they were very wealthy. They're actually not wealthy at all. They're highly over levered. They've got like, I think, $10 billion in debt. They have to do an IPO. Now, how stupid is this? They could have waited a couple of weeks, done their IPO, and be done. Instead, they do it early. They couldn't do it fast enough because you know why? In my opinion, it's only my opinion, the Mexican government totally tells Univision, it's about 80% of their market, totally tells Univision what to do. Totally. So the Mexican government is not happy with me, to put it mildly. But again, I respect Mexico but their leaders are too smart for our leaders because we have stupid leaders. Okay? And I'll tell you, just between you, just between this little bit of a group, thank you very much So the Mexican government does not care about the border nearly as much as they care about the bad trade deals that the United States is making with Mexico. That's really what it's all about. That's really what it's all about. So, I just sued Univision for $500 million. With all of that being said, we have to be strong. We have to take our country back. We have to run the country properly. So, I'm going to bring up a man who's a great man. He's a great, great guy. I saw him the other day on television. Don't worry. It's okay. You can shout. I wonder if the Mexican government sent them over here; I think so. Because I'm telling you, I tell about the bad deals that this country is making. Mexico, I respect the country. They're taking our jobs. They're taking our manufacturing. They're taking our money. They're taking everything, and they're killing us on the border. And Mexico does not like it. So remember this. Don't worry. We'll take our country back very soon. Very soon. So the other day, you know it's funny, I got a great review for a speech, including my opening speech when I announced I'm running for President. It wasn't until five days later that people started saying, Oh he said something, What they don't say is they cut it in the middle of the sentence. They cut it. Because those people, many of them, not all, some are great, but many of them are very dishonest people, meaning the press. Very dishonest. Very dishonest. I'll give you one quick example because I want to bring somebody up for a second who's fantastic. But I'll give you one quick example. I say, and it's fairly standards because I believe it strongly, The American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and stronger and better than ever before. Right? Right? So and I say it usually once during a speech, every once in a while. You know, I don't use teleprompters like the President and I speak from the heart. So I say The American dream is dead but I'm going to make it, it's standard, bigger, better, and stronger. Okay, so now I go home and my wife says to me, Darling, that was such a tough statement. What? I turned on the television. The American dream is dead. Period. Cut. I said, Oh, what a horrible statement. They are so dishonest. They are so dishonest. You know, what I usually do because if you really love this country, you have a very, very hard convincing people what you're doing is right and that you're really smart. And like a lot of us are really smart. I'm like really smart. Went to the Wharton School of Finance. Even then a long time ago, like the hardest or one of the hardest schools to get into. Did well at the school. Came out, made a fortune. Wrote a book called The Art of the Deal. Did everybody read The Art of the Deal? They say the number one selling business book of all time, which I agree, but I'll say one of them because if I'm slightly off by two copies, they'll say Oh, Trump exaggerated. Wrote many bestsellers. Many. I think 12. So I did a lot of things. But The Art of the Deal was like the number one selling business book of all time. Great. Then I do The Apprentice, became this tremendous hit. NBC was desperate to have it. Forget it. Now, they can put somebody else that lasts. Okay. So ready? And then I hear like Donald Trump doesn't deserve to be on the same stage with some failed Senators, failed governor or something. It's sort of amazing, isn't it? Isn't it amazing? And the poll just came out and I'm tied with Jeb Bush. And I said, Oh that's too bad. How can I be tied with this guy? He's terrible! He's weak on immigration. You know, the sanctuary cities. Did you know that he had five of them in Florida while he was governor? Can believe this? I didn't know that, I just, five of them. He's totally in favor of Common Core, meaning your children in Phoenix and other places are going to be educated by bureaucrats from Washington, who for the most part just want to pick up a check. Give me break. And he's in favor. I don't see him as a factor and I know it's the Bush name, which you know has gotten us into lots of wars. I mean, in all fairness, not the greatest. But Jeb Bush, I don't get it. So when they said, Mr. Trump, you're in first place. Oh that's good. You're tied with Jeb Bush. I said, That's not good. How can I be tied with this guy? But I'll tell you what, I'm going to bring up a man to just a few words. His son was viciously and violently shot by an illegal immigrant. His son was a star athlete, a star student. He applied to Stanford and many great colleges. He would have been, he could have gone anywhere. And I met Jamiel on television about a week ago. I see this guy. He's mentioning my name. I said, Oh no, not again because I figured he's killing me like everybody else. Right? My wife said, No, I think he's saying some really good things. I said, I doubt it. You know, they're hitting me left, right. I said, I doubt it. But I turned it up and he said, The only man that's sticking up for us is Donald Trump. This guy is great, and we were at the news conference with his mother and his sister yesterday and it was one of the most incredible things. So I'd like to introduce to speak a little bit about his son and how incredible his son was and how his son should be here with us. I mean, his son should be alive and he should be in one of the great colleges and he should be maybe someday in the NFL. But he won't be because an illegal immigrant shot him violently. And this guy is the best guy. He's become my friend. He's been with me for a few days. And just say a few words about your boy. By the way, Jamiel's sister is here too and she told me the story that when Jamiel saw the boy, saw the boy laying on the sidewalk dead, this incredible young man with such a future, Jamiel laid down on the sidewalk and started pounding the sidewalk with his hand and badly damaged his hand. Badly, badly. He couldn't understand it. He couldn't believe it. Just an amazing guy. I mean, just an amazing guy. And he wasn't being heard. He wasn't being heard. And the only reason I heard him was because he was talking on a show and he was mentioning how badly they've all been treated. And then you have in San Francisco, a beautiful young woman, Kate, and killed by somebody that just pleaded innocent. First pleaded guilty. Now he has a good lawyer and went into court and pleaded innocent. And they'll be playing around with him for about 15 years in court and probably he'll get off too. It's a horrible thing that's going on with our country. And these are two people that should be alive. And these are people that shouldn't have been in this country. They flow in like water. And I love legal immigration. I love it. I love it. I think it's great. My wife is a legal immigrant. I mean, she went through a whole long process. It's not easy, and we should maybe make it easier and faster, which I think is fine. And we'll have great people come in, and we'll have them come in from all countries, Mexico, everybody, every place. These are great people. And you know, one of the things that I've seen, because this has been an amazing week, and you know, it's been like an incredible week because I thought I was going to be the jobs person because every poll, CNN did a poll the other day, I'm killing everybody on jobs. I'm killing everybody on leadership. You know, it's like funny. You know, I went through these different categories, the only thing I'm not killing, a lot of people don't like me. I said what difference does it make. This is about competence. Somebody said, You win on leadership by far. You win on absolute economic, financial, anything having to do with the economy. You're like lapping the field. Much, much higher than anybody else. But they said, but a lot of people don't know whether or not they like you. I'm actually a nice person. But I actually said if I'm winning in all these categories, why are we even going through primaries? Hillary Clinton is going to be a horrible President. It's horrible. If she even wins her own primary, which I don't know. And by the way, just so you understand, even then press will say This crowd today blows away anything that Bernie Sanders is having. That I could tell you. But if you think about it, Hillary Clinton was the worst Secretary of State in the history of our country. The worst. The world blew up around her. Our enemies are a disaster and they hate us more. Our friends are all gone. They're all gone. They're all sort of like, we don't get along with anybody. Everybody is ripping us off, whether it's Russia or China. You know what we've done? For 20 years, I've heard the worst thing that could happen would be if Russia or China start uniting. We united them because we did things that were very onerous, because Obama doesn't like Putin and Putin doesn't respect or like Obama. And all of a sudden, Russia and China now are doing all sorts of things together. So we've driven them together and I've always heard that's a disaster, and it is a disaster. We have driven them. So, Hillary Clinton was the worst. Now, tell me something, why? Just tell me why would she be a good President? She'd be terrible. Who would you rather have negotiating a deal, a trade deal, with anybody? Trump or Hillary? Well, we have to get there first. So, who would you rather have negotiating a really good deal with Mexico, China, Japan? Trump or Jeb Bush? So, when I started, I really thought it would be, you know, a long slog, and I was okay with it. I didn't think that the immigration thing would take on a life like it has. I made some very tough statements about people flowing through because that's one of the things to make our country great again we have to create borders, otherwise we don't have a country. So it's one of many things. And I've been very strong. It's one of many things. We have to make great trade deals and all. So I said strong borders, one of the things. I said trade deals. Who would do better? I'll tell you what. I know the greatest negotiators in the world. Some are horrible people; horrible human beings. Who cares? Some Wall Street guys, they're brutal, they're miserable. You wouldn't want to go out to dinner, they're terrible people. I love them. I know the best. I know people that are totally overrated. They're not good like they think and like the press thinks. I know people that you never heard of that are better than all of them. I would take one, put him in charge of Japan. Good luck. You know who's our primary representative right now? Caroline Kennedy. You know how she got the job? 60 Minutes, she went to the White House. She said I'd love to have a job. I have nothing to do. They said, How would you like to be the Ambassador to Japan? She goes, Really? And Abe from Japan, who's a killer, he's great. He's already knocking the hell out of the yen, by the way, which makes it even more impossible for us to compete. And he's wining and dining her, and I watch it all the time, wining and dining and just doing a number on our country. A friend of mine is a great excavator. That's what he does. He digs foundations. He digs lots of dirt, Earth. But he's a great excavator. Big. And he always bought Caterpillar. And he calls me up recently and he goes, I'm a little depressed. Why? I just put in a big order for machinery, for excavating equipment. I said, Oh, that's good. Did you buy Caterpillar? No, I bought Komatsu. I said, You bought Komatsu? It's fine. I mean, it's a well known brand. I said, You bought Komatsu. Why? He said, Because Japan has so devalued the yen, brilliant, smart, these are smart people, that it made it impossible. So he ordered Komatsu instead of Caterpillar. This is happening all over the place. Today, in the Wall Street Journal, big story, Ford going to build tremendous plants all over the place overseas. Ford, by the way, speaking of Mexico. Again, I respect them. I wish we had smart people. Ford is building a $2 billion plant. Whoever heard of this? $2 billion in Mexico! So, I'm saying to myself, That's not good. And in addition to that in Tennessee, a big plant, $1 billion, was going to be built in Tennessee. Wall Street Journal. And all of a sudden at the last moment they decide to go to Mexico. It's going to be build down in Mexico by a big German car company. And Tennessee is great and the people were good. They all thought they had it, and at the last moment, it goes to Mexico. So I said to myself, Wow, $2 billion. And they're going to make cars and trucks and parts, and they're going to send them into the United States, no tax, no nothing. Now, I told you, I went to the Wharton School of Finance. I was like, I'm like a really smart person. My uncle, Dr. John Trump, was at MIT, one of the smartest people. Great engineer. Great, like you know, smart. Right? For many years he was at MIT. And I'm saying to myself, Where does this help us for Ford to build a plant in Mexico and then sell, without tax, no tax? All that means is one thing, that we don't build a plant in the United States, whether it's in Phoenix or anywhere, because it's being built in Mexico. So I said to myself, Okay, Jeb Bush is President and he knows this is the wrong thing. Right now, we have Obama. He won't call. He doesn't even call to get our hostages back from Iran. Here we are in the middle of a deal and he doesn't call about that. One sentence, I'd say, Before we start, we've got to get those people back. Used to be three, now it's four. Get those people back. They'd be back the next hour. We need the right messenger. The Iran deal is a disaster. The Iran deal is a disaster. They are begging. Our chief negotiator at 73 is in a bicycle race. He falls and breaks his leg. This is the mentality we have. So I said, What would Jeb Bush do? You're right. Benghazi. Another Benghazi. To hear our politicians, John McCain, two days, Oh, Benghazi! You don't hear about it anymore. Hillary Clinton with the emails, Oh the emails!, two days. I'm more disappointed in the Republicans in many ways. They talk and talk and talk. So, Jeb Bush, let's say he's President, ay, ay, ay, so let's say Jeb Bush is President. He knows it's no good to have a $2 billion plant built right near our country. How does it help us, right? So here's what happens. He knows it's no good. He'll have a little pressure. Don't let the plant be built. And he might even say, Don't let the plant be built. Might even call the head of Ford. The plant's not going to be built. And then the next day, he'll be called by special interests that supported him, his lobbyists who push him around like a piece of candy, or his donors who have stock in Ford. And they'll say, You can't do that. I helped you. You can't hurt them. You just can't do it. He folds in about two seconds. So let me say Trump is President. Let me say Trump. So I don't need anybody's money. Actually, people are setting up PACs all over the place. I don't care. If they want to give it to me, I'll take it. Okay? But I don't need money. I don't want money. So I'm doing my own. You'll see that on Thursday or whatever the hell day I file. You'll see I did really well. Much better than anyone ever thought. Just the opposite. So here's the story. So Trump is President. So I get a call from the head of Ford and I'll say, You got to build in the United States. Sorry. He'll say, But Mr. President, really, we don't want, I'll say, Here's the story. Number one, congratulations on your new plant in Mexico. And number two, we're going to charge you 35% for every car, truck, and part you send over. And here's what would happen, here's what would happen. Now, this isn't like 99% sure. This is 100%. In fact, you know the negotiators, the killers that I told you about, these bad people? I wouldn't even bother calling them because this is too easy. I can just do this like, you know, with a couple of phones. So here's what would happen with Trump. I will get some calls. He will say Mr. President, this is terrible. Please! Please! Sorry, can't do anything. Sorry, I don't care. I want you to build here. I want jobs in the United States. So, they would go and they'd call up the lobbyists. Hey, I hire lobbyists. I have lobbyists all over the place. They're great. I want something, go do this. I know the system better than anybody. I'm a donor. Somebody said, Oh, you gave to the Democrats. Of course, I give to them. I give to everybody. I want to get everything done. Everybody loves me. Everybody loves, I give to everybody. Now, in a lot of ways, that's very bad because you know what? That's bad for the country. You know it's bad. But that's the way it works. But I give to everybody; they all love me. They don't love me so much anymore by the way, I have to tell you. But here's what happens. He'll call. I'd say he folds sometimes prior to 5 pm in the evening. But he could be tough and he may last 'till 12 pm the following day. And he'll say Please and five guys will call me that are friends of mine and, you know, who I couldn't care less. I'd say, No, you don't understand. I want that plant built in the United States. I want jobs in the United States. Now, this is just one of many deals. And here's what happens. I wold probably get a call the first day but maybe the second day because they're tough negotiators. And he'll say, Mr. President, would you reconsider? I'd say No. He'll say, Mr. President, we've decided to build the plant in Phoenix. Okay? It's so simple. It's so simple. We have totally incompetent people. Now, some people say they're bad people. I don't think they're that smart to be bad people. Honestly, I mean, a lot of people get angry when I say I don't think they're bad; I think they're stupid; I think they're incompetent. So we've got to take our country back. We've got to get rid of Obamacare. We've got to repeal it and replace it with something good. And we have to take care, and I know this doesn't sound very conservative, we've got to take care of everybody, not just the people up here. We've got to take care of everybody. Okay? Get used to it, conservatives. I love you, conservatives. Get used to it. Let's take care of everybody, please? And by the way, Obamacare doesn't. And if you look at the premiums, the premiums are going through the roof. The deductibles, frankly, you have to get hit with a Komatsu tractor in order to use them, they're so high. We can do it. You get rid of state lines. You put it out. You'll have great care for much less money. The country will spend much less, and we will take care of those people that can't do it. We have to, we have to, we have to! We have to build up our military. I'm in the real estate business, as many of you have heard. You'll see that in a couple of days, by the way. I'm in the real estate business and all the time I get listings of bases for sale, a naval, an army base, a marine. There are all these bases. I said How many bases are there? All the time I'm getting these listings for bases. I said, What are we doing? We are hated throughout the world. China is building in the South China Sea islands. We can't do that because we would not be able to get an environmental impact statement. Can you believe? We'd go through 25 years of being sued by the environmentalist. And by the way, I'd hate to say this. I've been given many, many environmental awards. I get a lot of environmental awards. But we have to take back the heart of our country. We have to do something special. We have to bring back, and let me tell you, in bringing back our military, in bringing back our military, we have to do something else. We have to take care of our veterans because our veterans are treated like their third class citizens and they are the greatest. Now, if you remember a few days ago, Bush was asked the simplest question Was Iraq a good thing or a bad thing? He couldn't give an answer. Took him five days before he said it was bad. Now, think of this. Think of this. Five days. How can you have a guy like that negotiating for you? Five days it took him and finally he said it was bad. Okay? He could have done it in the first three seconds. But it took him five days. And if you think about it, we spent $2 trillion, lost thousands of lives, thousands. We have wounded warriors who I love all over the place. All over. Amazing, I mean, amazing people. So we have wounded warriors all over. We got nothing. And today, Iraq is meeting with Iran to do some kind of merger. So in 2004, in Reuters, anyone from Reuters back there? I'm sure they are. There's an article in July of 2004: Trump said don't invade Iraq. Now, I am more for the military and I am the most militaristic person in this room. I would have a military that's so strong that we would never have to use it because people would say No way we're messing with them. No way we're messing with them. And I'd get along with Putin and I'd get along with China. You know, China, largest bank in the world is in China. They're my tenant. I just renewed their lease. Who speaks worse about China than me? No, I do it out of respect. But China, they just renewed their lease. We would never move to a build other than your building. They love it. But it's called respect. It's called respect. They respect smart things, smart people, smart deals. They have no respect for our country. So with Bush, if you people go with Bush, you're going to lose. I'll tell you one other thing and we're going to wrap it up now, but I'll tell you something. And this will be surprising to a lot of people. Thousands and thousands of people work for me. Tens of thousands. I've give tens of thousands, I've taken care of education, for families. I've taken care of health care at the highest level. I didn't even have to worry about Obamacare because my people do better. My people got lucky but I got lucky too, they're great people. But ISIS will be in such trouble. Oh. ISIS. ISIS, believe me, they will be in such trouble. You know the problem, have to say this. So we're fighting wars and we're backing all these stupid people that, honestly, I don't say they're stupid. They don't care. Like the Iraqis. They don't, they have no love for the country. The leadership, there is no leadership but let's assume there is, they're all thieves. They're all terrible people. 100% corrupt. So we send to one of our so called allies 2300 Humvees. Now, think of it. Normally, you'd send like three. How many are here? We send three. They're armor plated Humvees. You can imagine what they cost. They don't even report because it's probably so high that it's another scandal like the $500 billion website for Obamacare, which never worked and still doesn't work. So we send 2300 Humvees. One bullet is fired in the air, and the people we gave the Humvees to flee and the enemy takes them over. And they're better than the ones that our boys and women have. Because they were the best, they're gone in one day. Remember Yemen, how we had the victory? The big victory? It turned out to be a false victory because a few months later it was gone. If you think that those people, if you think that they want Yemen, take a look at a map with that long beautiful border along Saudi Arabia. They want the oil. Do you remember what I said, and I get a lot of credit for this. They said, He's the one guy, and I'm a very militaristic guy, but he's the one guy that said don't do Iraq because you'll destabilize it and then Iran will take over and then somebody else worse than than Saddam Hussein will take over the rest. ISIS, hey, Saddam Hussein was never as bad as these people. These people are brutal. They're chopping off everybody's heads, especially if you happen to be Christian. They chop off your head. They dunk people with a cage. Did you see that? They dunk them and drown them. These people make Saddam Hussein look like a choir boy. Okay? And I said this in 2004. Okay, now Bush goes in and he makes a mistake. And then Obama, frankly, we might as well have stayed there, but he made a mistake too. And I said, Keep the oil. Do you remember that? And everyone said, You can't keep the oil. This is a sovereign country. You can't keep the oil. I said, Keep the oil. We're in there now. You blew it. You shouldn't have gone in. And every other candidate is fleeing. They're all trying to say, Well, they didn't know. There was intelligence that said this. They all said Do it. I'm the only one that said no. I'm the only one that said No. Keep the oil, I said. I've been saying this for two, three years. Don't leave. Keep the oil. Because if you don't get it, Iran will get it or somebody else is going to get it. Iran is taking it and ISIS has it. And ISIS now is building a hotel in Iraq. They're competing with me. Can you believe it? They're renovating this building; they're building a hotel. They're wealthy. They have the oil. And I said, Keep it. And great criticism. Trump says keep the oil. Well, that's a sovereign country. Isn't it a horrible thing to say? These are stupid people we have leading us. So ISIS, believe me, I would take them out so fast, it would be, have to do it, have to do it. See, I think they overplayed their hand. I actually think they made a big mistake. When they started, like you take James Foley. So great. Such a great guy. I got to know his parents. I met the parents; they're very interesting They did the beheading and then they've done other, I said, You know, they're making a big mistake, ISIS, because if they wouldn't have done and if they wouldn't keep doing, we wouldn't have cared. We could have been gone. But you can't, not when you see what they're doing, you can't. Had they not done those things, the level of violence, we're like living in Medieval times. You know, when you hear of Medieval time, you always think we were all civilized. It's a jungle. It's horrible out there. But when they started doing the beheadings, they really, I think they made a mistake but not with Obama because he's weak and he's ineffective and he's not respected. Not respected. So here's the problem. Here's the kind of deals we make: James Foley is dead. Great guy. Amazing guy. Amazing parents. We have Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor. So we negotiate for Sergeant Bergdahl, a no good traitor. Six people were killed trying to find him. Six young in this case men went out to try to get him; six of them never came back. Six people died and we have Sergeant Bergdahl. And here's our deal. This is just like the stupid deal that we're making with Iran on nuclear. This is just like everything else we do, the deals we make with China, the deals we make with Mexico. We don't know what we're doing. So we get Bergdahl, a no good traitor. Frankly, I'd renegotiate deals every once in a while. Not too often but I'd send him back, and if they don't want him, send him back anyways. I want to renegotiate that. They get five killers that are right now back on the battlefield, trying to kill everybody, including the people in this room. And these were the five people that they most wanted. So I call Obama the five for one President. Who would make that deal? Now, I don't think it's because he's a bad person. Who would make a deal like this? But these are the same deals that we make with all of these countries. When I look at Japan, I just go over from Los Angeles. We had a tremendous crowd there too. We had a tremendous crowd. And we had a big one in Las Vegas this morning. But when I look at these massive boats, I've never seen boats like this, the biggest boats with cars coming from Japan. And then we can't sell corn. We can't sell beef. It's peanuts. We can't sell beef. So we do about 20% to their 100%. So I said it in an idea on the way over. I said, Tell Japan that's okay. Everything's fine. We're going to cut your orders down to 20%. Let it match. Let it match. Simple deal. Simple deal. And I had another idea that's also very simple. When Mexico, and you remember when Fidel Castro took over, the opened his prisons and he sent everybody over to the United States and we accepted them and it was hell. We didn't send them back. We accepted them. In a much, much, much more sophisticated way, Mexico is doing that to us because why would they want to have a prisoner like these two horrible people that hurt so badly, destroyed, but hurt so badly the Shaw family and Kate's family. Why would they want to have them in jail for 40 years, paying for it? So I had an idea. The one with Kate came over five times. In my opinion, he was pushed out by Mexico. They don't want him. They don't want to take care of him. Why would they want to take care of him? And believe me, Univision, which I'm suing by the way for $500 million because they broke the contract, but Univision is doing the work of the Mexican government. And I don't blame them actually. I respect Mexico. I don't blame the Mexican government. I just wish our people were smart. Like they're really smart doing that. They're sending them to us and we're either putting them in jails or letting them go free, which is even worse. But we have to do something. So, I have an idea. I said every time an illegal comes to this country through the border because Mexico was pushing them over, remember that. And by the way, unbelievable people are coming. A lot of people that are illegal are great people. Just let's get it straight, they don't want to give it straight because the press are liars. They're terrible people. They're terrible people. Terrible. Not all of them but many of them. So here's an idea. So, Mexico is sending them. And by the way, they're coming from all over the world including the Middle East. Why not? Come on in. We're stupid. We'll take care of you. We'll pay. Get sick, we'll take care of your hospitalization. What kind of a plan do you want? So I had an idea. I think it's good. Every time Mexico really intelligently sends people over, we charge Mexico $100000 for every person they send over. Now, they make so much money that that's peanuts. It's not a lot. Could have made it much higher but I'm nice. I'm in a good mood today. We charge Mexico $100000 for every person. You'll see that it'll start to stop because that starts to add up. It starts to add up. We have to secure our borders. We have to do something to take back our country. I mean, don't kid yourself folks, what took place today, even by the dishonest press, what took place today is being seen all over the world. Look at all those cameras back there. This is being seen all over the world. People know. You know, it's a term I haven't heard for years but I was thinking about it. It's a term that I haven't heard for years but I really think it applies now more than maybe ever before and that's the term the silent majority. Have you all heard that? You don't hear it. When people start cutting up their credit cards at Macy's and won't go to Macy's anymore, when all of these things, and that's a big story but nobody wants to write it. That's fine. I don't care about me. But when you see the kind of power that the silent majority has and the silent majority is a problem. They want to go out. They want to lead a good life. They want to work hard. They want to have their family. They don't want to be involved in coming here and waiting on a line for hours and hours and coming in and listening to Trump. But the silent majority is back, and we're going to take the country back. And we are going to make America great again! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you! 